**GOVAN COMMUNITY COUNCIL**

**GENERAL MEETING MONDAY 8 JULY 2024**

Held in the Board Room, Elderpark Workspace at 7 p.m.

Present: Esme Clark, Danny O'Neill, Hannah Salome, Reinhild Gorniack,
John Foster, Andre Videla, Che Campbell

Apologies: Marie Davidson, Betty Ross, Ruby Kelly, Annie Morgan, Humza
Yousaf MSP, Councillor Alam.

Minute taker: John Foster

1.  MINUTES OF THE JUNE MEETING\
    These were moved as correct by Hannah Salome and Esme Clark.

2 MATTERS ARISING

a)  **Cleansing, environment, litter crisis and drains crisis**

> Issues raised in the previous minutes were noted. Once responses had
> been received from the two Housing Associations we should seek a
> meeting. Meanwhile Our Secretary reported that in her area --
> Elderpark Grove -- the response to the new leaflet on how to allocate
> waste has been very unevenly taken up, In some parts not at all.
> Additionally two collections had been missed in the past month. More
> positively, it was noted that tetra packs and a number of other types
> of packaging had been added to the list of recyclables and that the
> ban on pedestrians delivering refuse to the Shieldhall depot had been
> lifted.
>
> ***Arrange meeting with HAs for September.***

b)  **Closure of Bank of Scotland: loss of cash machine -- report from
    Gordon Mackay**

> Gordon reported on two separate aspects of the issue
>
> *i) Cash Machine*
>
> Esme and Gordon were congratulated on the article which appeared in
> the Evening Times on 12 June. It was noted, however, that our own
> submission to Link had been unintentionally inaccurate as the cash
> machine at 920 Govan Road had been converted to a non-pay machine the
> previous month. At the same time it was felt by the meeting that this
> was not a satisfactory solution to the problem of making cash
> available in the evening after the two other shop-based cash machines
> were closed. That section of Govan Road from the Lyceum to the
> shipyard gates was notoriously disorderly in evenings with three pubs
> and a snooker hall and relatively frequent street fights. Most people,
> especially the elderly, avoid it. It was agreed that we should
> continue with our representations on this basis -- if possible
> securing confirmation from the Police and adding evidence on the
> growing size of the population from Central Govan Action Plan (Hannah
> promised to forward details of Police contacts now that Inspector Bob
> Anderson had moved on). It was also noted that FCA would secure new
> compulsory powers this autumn. Our Secretary proposed a letter to
> Barclays Bank, whose new local HQ was adjacent to the 'squinty bridge'
> up-river, proposing that they install a cash machine in the
> underground. This was AGREED.
>
> *ii) Banking hub in the underground*
>
> Our former MP Chris Stephens had been very active in seeking support
> for a banking hub in the Govan underground. This would involve
> collaboration between a number of banks. It was felt that given the
> FCA's new powers we should press on with this. It was noted that Cllr
> Alam had said he would seek a letter of support from our four City
> councillors.

**c) Elder Park Library: Reopening and Provision of Café**

The Library was finally officially opened on 25 May -- although
considerable work remained in terms of painting and outfitting. Our
Secretary admitted considerable disappointment. Hours were just 10 to 5
(apart from late opening on Monday till 8 pm). This was not good for
children doing home work or those at work during the day. The general
atmosphere was 'that of a dentist's waiting room' and not a traditional
library where the availability of books came foremost. Additionally
there was disquiet at single sex toilets and changing facilities for
babies that were open to public view. Hannah Salome stressed that some
of problems might be sorted out during the final stage of the revamp and
that the supervisor of the Library was very helpful -- but agreed that
the new arrangements were far less than perfect. In addition the
building was now very noisy which made study difficult.

**d) Community Notice Board in the Shopping Centre**

Our Secretary had talked to the new area manager, Douglas Castle, who
was very amenable to the development of closer links to the community
and to the provision of an effective noticeboard. Esme was asked to
continue the discussions stressing the willingness of the Community
Council to fund a larger and more accessible noticeboard.

**e) £1 million Infrastructure Improvement Fund**

Allocations would be made at the meeting in August.

**f) Show People's access to their site**

No new information.

3\. BUS TRANSPORT

Agreed to comeback to this issue. The submission on franchising had been
sent to a consultant and no response was yet available.

4\. REPORTS ON CITY COUNCIL CUTS

It had been AGREED that councillors should seek to identify where cuts
had been made across the Council services and supply the July meeting
with details of the number of jobs lost. No councillors were present.

5\. COMMUNITY COUNCIL MEETINGS -- BOTH MONTHLY AND 'PUBLIC'

Betty Ross had confirmed that the Café area in the PI was available at
£30 for two hours of an evening. It was agreed to hold our AGM either
there or in the Library if available (decision September meeting. Minute
Secretary to confirm.

6\. GOVAN FAIR FRIDAY 7 JUNE

Members felt that generally the Fair was successful. The football
tournament had been widely welcomed, the event in the Pearce Institute
went very well and the numbers walking in the procession was up.
Nonetheless it was felt that it would be helpful if we have closer
liaison in the future and that the Community Council gave greater
support.

7\. SECRETARY'S REPORT

**Future of the Lyceum**

No further progress to report. The official petition was still open (and
available at Maslows). Members were urged to sign and get others to do
so -- noting that all signatories had to be on the voters' roll.

**Mary Barbour statue**

It was felt that some of the ideas expressed at the previous meeting on
further raising the profile of Mary Barbour might be achieved through
Glasgow's 850^th^ anniversary celebration fund in 2025 -- with bids
being agreed this coming autumn. We should continue with the proposal to
name the new bridge, 'the Mary Barbour bridge' although there was a
report that plans had already been made to call it the Billy Connolly
bridge. It was also AGREED that we should also make contact with Partick
Community Council to discuss how the bridge would impact on both our
areas and issues of common interest

8\. CHAIR'S REPORT: THE NEW SUBWAY CARRIAGES

Our chair reported that services had not improved -- apart from the
restoration of wifi. In particular there were issues with the
information system. Electronic displays of train arrival times had been
repeatedly misleading and journey times continued significantly longer.
Nor had any action yet been taken on the violent vibrations. Andre
Videla felt that a rail system designed to be 'autonomous' and
self-regulating should not have these problems. It was AGREED to invite
a representative of STP after the summer.

Che Campbell raised the issue of the lifts for disabled passengers.
There currently only two (Govan and St Enoch's) and St Enoch was out of
action. He reported an incident whereby a severely disabled passenger
had been allowed to use the lift in Govan but therefore found no way of
exiting at St Enoch's.

9\. TREASURER'S REPORT

Reinhild reported that there was currently £5062.55 in the Council's
account -- with most of the expenses from the Spring public meeting and
newsletter met. Reinhild was thanked for her work.

10\. COMMUNITY COUNCIL ORGANISATION

**a) Themes for our monthly meetings**

September: Fire and Rescue services

October: SPT -- underground and franchising issues for bus transport

***b) Website***

Andre Videla had now taken over responsibility and purchased a fresh
domain name and site (which would also enable the CC to maintain control
should the current owner go out of business). The Council APPROVED the
expenditure (very moderate at less than £50) and the Treasurer
reimbursed the amount. Andre would continue to develop the site and come
back on developments to the September meeting.

***c) Membership of the Community Council***

It was noted that we had at least three active attenders who were by
residence eligible for membership and that we also now had over three
vacancies. The meeting AGREED we should approach the City Council to
initiate proceedings whereby nominations could be sought and if
necessary elections held (otherwise the CC nominated members would
become members automatically). It was hoped that any election ballot
could take place immediately prior to the AGM on Monday 7 October. It
was also AGREED that the AGM formally appoint a number of those
contributing to our work as ASSOCIATE members.

***d) Next issue of the Govan Letter***

it was agreed that we should seek to issue this towards the end of in
September ahead of our AGM and Autumn public meeting. Our September
meeting should discuss themes

11\. COUNCILLOR'S REPORTS AND ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES

There were no councillor reports in the context of the Council break
through July.

It was AGREED that a letter of thanks be sent to out late MP Chris
Stephens expressing appreciation for his comprehensive and sustained
constituency work and his support for the Community Council (mentioning
also his constituency assistant Alistair Shaw).

It was also agreed that we seek to make contact with our new MP Dr Zubir
Ahmed.

12\. AOCB: POLICE ACTION AT THALES

In her email of apology for the meeting Annie Morgan had raised the
character of police action against non-violent protesters outside the
Thales armaments factory on 15 May. On that occasion, and again at a
subsequent protest, over 60 police officers appeared to use a measure of
confrontation and force rarely seen in recent years against a smaller
number of peaceful protesters blocking the entrance. There was a further
protest three weeks later. Protestors faced police action both outside
Thales and on Govan Road down to the underground station (which had been
closed). It was AGREED to raise this with our MSP Humza Yousaf as a
Scottish government responsibility. It was noted that Thales claimed
that the drones they manufactured jointly with the Israeli firm Elbit
were for the UK's government's MoD. It was not their responsibility that
that the British government supplied them to Israel.

**12. NEXT MEETING MONDAY 2 SEPTEMBER at 7 p.m. in Elderpark Workspace**
