---
layout: post
title:  "General Meeting 3rd July 2023"
author: john
---

GOVAN COMMUNITY COUNCIL

MINUTES OF GENERAL MEETING

MONDAY 3 JULY 2023

Present: Allan Bell, Esme Clark, Danny O'Neill, John Foster, Robert
Preston, Hannah Salome, Betty Ross, Gina Preston, Ruby Kelly, Inspector
Bob Anderson, PC Nicola Pack, Jim Ellis (GCC)

Apologies: Reinhild Gorniak, Annie Morgan, Jackie McColl, Cllrs Alam,
Bell, Dornan and Hutchison, Amanda Brown.

Minute Secretary: John Foster

1.MINUTES OF JUNE MEETING

These were moved as correct by Danny O'Neill and Esme Clark

2\. DISCUSSION WITH THE POLICE AND CITY COUNCIL REPRESENTATIVES ON
SERVICES IN GOVAN

2\. MATTERS ARISING FROM THE MINUTES OF THE MAY MEETING

a)  **Cleansing, litter and anti-social behaviour**

Our Secretary reported that, as agreed at the May meeting. letters had
been sent requesting attendance at our July meeting of a representative
of the Police, preferably Inspector Bob Anderson, a senior officer of
Govan Housing Association and representatives of the City Council
responsible for Cleansing Services and for Social Work. The letters
outlined the persistent and worsening character of the problems with
anti-social behaviour, inadequate cleansing, struggling youth services
as well as lack of funding for infrastructure improvement.

Over the past three weeks further anti-social behaviour was reported
from the north end of Shaw Street outside the pub, illegal use of
fireworks (and no response to a 101 call for 20 minutes), an instance of
blue and green bins being emptied into the same bin lorry compartment
(Harmony Place), the big litter bins at the north end of Uist Street
being stacked with cardboard three foot over the top impeding traffic
visibility.

b)  **Car parking**

The problems continued to worsen. Our Chair expressed concern that the
promised 16 space carparking at the base of the flats currently being
constructed by CCG on Langlands Road did not, so far, appear to be
present although they were part of planning consent.

c)  **Bus Franchising, the piloting of free public transport in Glasgow
    and government schemes for the introduction of electric buses**

Our Vice Chair reported that, as agreed at the May meeting, a letter had
been sent to the City Council requesting its support for Glasgow's
participation in the Scottish government's pilot scheme to test the
viability of free public transport in a city setting. The letter also
stressed that any trial of the scheme should be universal, not targeted
at specific groups, cover the whole city and for the City Council to
hire the required buses from the commercial firms (minimising the
outflow of income).

Our Vice Chair reported further on the Scottish government's scheme to
introduce electric buses. For the scheme's first phase, he reported, 98
percent of the funding had gone to the private sector. The scheme was
now into its second phase with £58m about to be allocated. Our Vice
Chair noted that Get Glasgow Moving was proposing that the SPTE should
support a bid for Glasgow to secure electric buses for routes locally
and these be operated within the public sector. It was AGREED a letter
be written to the City Council and SPTE in support of the call from Get
Glasgow Moving and other public sector lobby groups.

d)  **Meeting with Humza Yousaf** Agreed to defer for the time being.

3\. SECRETARY'S REPORT

a)  **Correspondence arising from 5 April public meeting on public
    services and the cost of living crisis**

Letters had been received from the Scottish government and from the
Secretary of State for Scotland in response to our correspondence. These
replies were read to the meeting.

**Scottish Government**

The response was initialled by Shona Robison, deputy first minister. It
said that the government had supplemented the initial Scottish local
government grant of £13.5 billion by £793m in light of the special
circumstances. Of this Glasgow received an additional £62m (or a 4.2
percent addition). The letter went on to say that the City Council had
its own powers to borrow and to raise additional funds through the
council tax. On the proposal that the government should review local
government boundaries to include the city's very wealthy suburbs, the
letter replied that there were no plans to do so. The letter noted that
the Scottish government had no responsibilities for the support of
asylum seekers or refugees but opposes people being pushed into
destitution.

The meeting expressed disappointment with the reply -- particularly with
the failure to consider the issue of boundary realignment and the
failure to acknowledge the magnitude and social consequences of the cuts
in the 2023-24 budget. Councillor Bell noted, very politely, that the
response did not admit what was the elephant in the room: that the
2023-24 settlement failed to make adjustment for rates of inflation of
near 11 percent -- and that the 4.2 percent supplement had required cuts
of £64m to essential services.

**Alister Jack, Secretary of State for Scotland**

The reply dealt with the following issues.

*Local industry and employment*:

the government had allocated £4.2 billion for BAE naval construction,
generating 1,700 jobs, and a further grant of £33m for the Glasgow
innovation accelerator.

*Scottish Government and borrowing requirements*:

Scottish budgets decisions were outwith the jurisdiction of Westminster
but the Scotland Acts of 2012 and 2016 had increased borrowing powers
for current spend to £3 billion (annual spend £450m) and for resource
spend to £600m -- and additionally in light of the economic shock of
2023 there had been additional allocations of £600m for 23-24 and £300m
for 24-25. There was also an ongoing review of grant funding in light of
tax and welfare devolution.

*Glasgow boundaries*

These were the responsibility of the Local Government Boundary
Commission, an independent body tasked to ensure proportionate electoral
constituencies.

*Refugee and Asylum support*

The response detailed current levels of financial support as well the
support in kind. It suggested that £45 a week was sufficient to cover
food, clothing, transport and toiletries and that in special
circumstances funding might available for transport for medical care or
required official interviews. It noted that asylum seekers were allowed
to undertake unpaid volunteering activities though not paid work and
that this regime was designed to deter illegal immigration.

*Levelling Up*

Under this heading the letter stated that the UK government has
committed £79m to Glasgow City including £13m for a community centre in
Pollok and another £27m under the government's Shared Prosperity Fund
for climate change initiatives. Glasgow shared in the £523m investment
in the City Regional Deal that included the Govan-Partick pedestrian
bridge. There was also £150m under the Community Ownership Fund with
grants of up to £1m when back by community funding of at least £100k.

In discussion it was noted

a)  That the economic shock additions in no way matched inflation

b)  That the response on boundaries was beside the point: the issue was
    the fiscal base for local government funding and not electoral
    proportionality.

c)  That the specification for asylum seeker support failed to meet need
    (almost all had to resort to food banks) and that the ban on work
    had long-term consequences for employability.

d)  That the Levelling Up funding was inadequate and poorly
    administered: Councillor Bell instanced the most recent rounds where
    Glasgow was allocated a minor project (the Pollok centre) in the
    first round, encouraged to participate in the second (financially
    bigger) round and then at the last moment told it was ineligible to
    do so because it had participated in the first round.

Arising from these discussions it was AGREED that we consider publishing
these responses and our collective replies -- particularly in light of
the concerns of the 60 people who had attended our public meeting. We
should also ask, with this mind, that Hannah and Ruby draft replies
relevant to the experience of asylum seekers in Govan (with assistance
from Annie Morgan). Annie noted that although special provision was
being made for refugees from Ukraine, no such provision was being made
for those from war zones in Afghanistan or Syria. She also noted that
positive contribution that had been made by a dozen Syrian refugees to
services and community life in Bute (suffering from depopulation).

It was further AGREED to consider a public meeting for later in the
autumn, as proposed at our April public meeting, to hear responses and
consider further action.

b)  **Preparation for discussions with those responsible for local
    service provision at our July meeting**

It was AGREED that those invited be sent a detailed agenda and copies of
the June minutes ahead of the meeting.

4\. PLANNING

**Consultation on proposals for the redevelopment of the Dry Dock**

Our Secretary and Annie Morgan had attended the meeting in the Pearce
Institute on 25 May. Concerns were expressed that the housing proposed
would be mid-market or private when further public sector housing was
needed locally. The various options for the development of the marine
area were reported. Our chair reported that, under auspices of the
Central Govan Action Plan, he had with the Chair of East Govan Community
Council initiated plans for a Community Development Trust with community
representation. Annie Morgan hoped that the initiative might include
provision for heat provision from the river as at Clydebank.

5\. TREASURER'S REPORT

There were no current transactions.

6\. CHAIR'S REPORT

**a) E Scooters**

Illegal use of these continued on public footpaths and roads. There had
been a number of near-miss accidents locally. The police had failed to
respond so far.

**b)Commercial waste and fly tipping**

A number of shops in central Govan and Elderpark areas appeared to be
either dumping commercial waste in public bins or hiring commercial
contractors who often flytipped this refuse. It was hoped new
legislation going through the Scottish parliament would close this
loophole and that all commercial waste should be disposed of through
City Council services.

**c)Govan Fair**

The 2023 Govan Fair had been successful with attendance maintaining, if
not improving, previous levels and enthusiastic participation by young
people. A point was raised about the non-availability of the double
decker bus to transport young children. This was, it was explained,
because of misbehaviour by young footballers on the bus the previous
year and that the new rule was in the interests of public safety.

7\. COUNCILLORS' REPORTS

**Councillor Bell** noted that the City Council budget had earmarked
£12m over the next two years for infrastructure for the south-west and
that one major consideration was road repair. Additionally he noted that
more Lottery Heritage funding was now available and that consideration
was being given to possible projects in the Govan area. It was seen to
be important to enhance significant local attractions for visitors if
the new Bridge was to fulfil its purpose of bringing custom into Govan
itself.

**Councillor Hutchison** noted that in its first week the new Limited
Emission Zone had resulted in a one third improvement in air quality in
the city centre. There appeared to be no significant impact so far on
parking on the perimeter. He also noted that he would seek to clarify
the dates of opening for the Elderpark Library.

8\. NEW BUSINESS

a)  **Govan Fire Station**

Robert Preston reported a news item that day which indicated that the
number of engines in Govan was to be reduced to one. This was felt to be
a matter of considerable concern which the officers would need to take
up as it was the general rule that two engines were required for any
station's operational viability. Any closure would have significant
consequences for the hospital, the shipyard and the tenements.

b)  **Safeguarding the Moogetty garden space and amenities**

Annie Morgan as that the Community Council commit to ensuring that the
garden space be adequately protected during the construction of new
accommodation by Elderpark HA. This was agreed.

**9. NEXT MEETING MONDAY 3 JULY AT 7 pm ELDERPARK WORKSPACE**
