---
layout: post
title:  "General Meeting 13th May 2023"
author: john
---

**GOVAN COMMUNITY COUNCIL**

**GENERAL MEETING MONDAY 13 MAY 2024**

Held in the Board Room, Elderpark Workspace at 7 p.m.

Present: Esme Clark, Danny O'Neill, Hannah Salome, Reinhild Gorniack,
John Foster, Marie Davidson, Ruby Kelly, Gordon MacKay, Annie Morgan,
Marie Davidson, Cllr Dornan, Cllr Dan Hutchison, Alistair Shaw
(representing Chris Stephens MP), C. Edugie Robertson (Glasgow Life)

Apologies:, Betty Ross, Robert Preston, Gina Preston, Cllr Ricky Bell,
Cllr Imran Alam, Humza Yusaf MSP (has not attended since November 2016),
Alan Bell,

Minute taker: John Foster

1.  MINUTES OF THE APRIL MEETING\
    These were moved as correct by Esme Clark, seconded by Hannah
    Salome.

2 MATTERS ARISING

a)  **Cleansing, environment, litter crisis and drains crisis**

> Some improvements in littering and refuse dumping were reported in the
> Elderpark area since our May meeting - largely the responsibility of
> joint initiatives between Jim Fraser, Elderpsrk Housing Association,
> Cllt Dan Hutchison and some local tenants. But they in no way matched
> the scale of the problem both there and across Govan as a whole. Marie
> Davidson reported that the pavements adjacent to 126 Elderpark Street
> remained strewn with refuse as did parts of Nimmo Drive. Concerns were
> also expressed at the likely impact of the new 'Refuse Hubs', now
> scheduled for Govan according to Jim Fraser. Annie Morgan noted the
> apparent success of the cooperative approach (residents and council)
> developed in Renfrewshire.
>
> It was AGREED to invite representatives of the two Housing
> Associations and those responsible for cleansing in the City Council
> to a meeting.

b)  **Closure of Bank of Scotland**

> Gordon Mackay further reported on his investigations regarding the
> legal responsibilities of banks to provide banking services that
> matched the needs of local communities. He had now identified a
> Working Paper being produced by the Financial Conduct Authority under
> the terms of Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 that was intended
> as the basis for legislation by government to ensure that the entire
> population was within one mile of a free to use cash machine. Gordon
> noted that the 'free to use' cash machine on the back wall of the
> chemists facing the shopping centre carpark had been removed in the
> past month and there were now big queues at Morrisons' cash machine
> (only available when the shop was open).
>
> Chris Stephens MP was maintaining his initiative, led locally by
> Alastair Shaw, to secure a cash hub in the subway, a meeting had been
> held and discussions were continuing with Barclays Bank
>
> It was AGREED that we should publicise our local campaign in the
> Glasgow press in order to link up with other campaigns in the city. It
> was also important to raise with those responsible for the City Plan
> and the development of the Partick-Govan bridge because of its
> specific intention to expedite economic investment and growth on the
> Govan side of the river. The lack of both banks and cash machines
> would be major disincentives. The meeting felt that in immediate
> circumstance it was probably not sensible to place too much weight on
> the possibility of initiatives by the informal/community sector such
> as the Credit Union.

**c) Elder Park Library: Reopening and Provision of Café**

Councillors present reiterated their understanding that the Library
would reopen in June. It would, however, not contain a café (although
kitchen facilities were available). There was no clear indication as to
whom, within Glasgow Life, had taken the decision, it seems, at a very
late stage. There was some feeling that local voluntary provision might
be possible and also be cheaper.

It was AGREED to write to Glasgow Life and the Council Chief Executive
deploring what seemed to be a breach of trust on the question of the
café -- a decision taken without consultation.

**d) Community Notice Board in the Shopping Centre**

It was AGREED to raise with the Shopping Centre administration the
willingness of the Community Council to meet the financial costs of
increasing the size of the existing noticeboard and to provide adequate
lighting.

**e) £1 million Infrastructure Improvement Fund**

A very considerable range of projects had been put forward by voluntary
organisations in the Greater Govan Area. Bidding had now closed (12
May). Residents will be eligible to vote between 12 August and 29 August
on which proposals should be implemented.

**f) Show People's access to their site**

Subsequent to the discussion at the April Community Council it was felt
that the City Council might be taking a more realistic and constructive
approach in recent discussions. Councillors were ASKED to liaise with
Council officers to ensure that progress was made.

3\. COMMUNITY COUNCIL PUBLIC MEETING 25 APRIL

While attendance was a bit disappointing (probably partly a consequence
of a very partial Royal Mail distribution of our newsletter: only one in
two of those attending the CC meeting had received copies) it was felt
that the meeting as a whole was worthwhile and useful. Hannah was
congratulated on both the organisation and her own presentation.

Hannah stressed the expanding community-focus of the Ferett and the
significance of Karen Goodwin's research on housing and homelessness.
She also stressed the seriousness of problems in Govan -- especially in
Central Govan -- including fear among newcomers of speaking out and also
the need for more translators to ensure that issues were raised.
Homelessness was growing more acute. So was criminal and anti-social
behaviour. It was important that Housing Associations faced up to their
responsibilities.

In terms of future meetings it was felt that the convenience and
ambience of the PI Café had helped the success of the meeting.

Subsequently it was agreed that the Pearce Institute Café would provide
an excellent venue for the Community Council itself and it was AGREED to
check with Betty Ross availability on a Monday evening in the coming
year.

4\. SECRETARY'S REPORT

**Future of the Lyceum**

Our Secretary reported on progress in establishing a Community
Development Trust by the Central Govan Action Plan on behalf of the
Lyceum Preservation Trust. The Trust was now registered with OSCAR and
required signatures from local residents. The objective was to attract
into Govan visitors from across Scotland and beyond. The meeting
expressed its thanks to Esme for helping to take the initiative on this
front.

**Mary Barbour statue**

Esme congratulated all those who had taken the initiative in erecting
the statue. Three times in the last month the statue had provided the
focus point for those campaigning for women's rights and working class
rights in general: for Waspi Women on pensions, for Equal Pay and
against cuts of jobs in education. It was also noted that BAE
functionaries had attempted to associate themselves with the statute.
This was felt to be wholly inappropriate given Mary Barbour's stance
against militarism and war. It was felt that when Mary's 150^th^
anniversary came up in 2025 we should support any moves to name the
bridge, the Mary Barbour Bridge. The Bridge was now expected to open in
November.

5\. CHAIR'S REPORT

Chair will supply

6\. VICE CHAIR's REPORT

Hannah drew our attention to an event on Friday 17 May at 12.30 with
music and food to celebrate cultural diversity at Park Villa, 337
Langlands Rd,

7\. TREASURER'S REPORT

Reinhild reported that a cheque had been sent to Forward Print covering
the cost of printing the Spring Govan Letter.

8\. COUNCILLOR'S REPORTS

**Councillor Dornan** reported on new initiative by SPT to provide
notice boards for timing of trains on the same basis as buses.

**Councillor Hutchison** noted the motion before the City Council on
Thursday to establish a firework control zone and establish instead a
publicly run firework display (in line with what was Govan CC policy).

9\. ANY OTHER BUSINESS

**a) Air fryers**

Community adoption of Air Fryers: C. Edugie Robertson from Glasgow Life
reported on the project to develop the adoption of Air Fryers by local
community organisations including Community Councils. Air fryers used 50
percent less power and provided better nutrition. She hoped that the
Community Council might support an application for the funding of
training.

**b) Protection of community space in Elderpark**

Annie Morgan raised the problems raised for community spaces in the
Elderpark area -- specifically the Moogetty gardens -- in face the
building of two blocks of flats and associated parking. These are likely
to knock out access, possibly more, unless the community comes together
to resist. Annie hoped that once she had brought together a group of
stake-holders the Community Council would send a representative.

**9. NEXT MEETING MONDAY 3 JUNE at 7 p.m. in Elderpark Workspace**
