---
layout: post
title:  "General Meeting 7th October 2024"
author: john
---

GOVAN COMMUNITY COUNCIL

2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

MONDAY 7 OCTOBER 2024

Held in the Board Room, Elderpark Workspace at 7 p.m.

**Present**: Esme Clark, Annie Morgan, Danny O'Neill, John Foster,
Gordon Mackay, Robert Preston, Gina Preston, Marie Davidson, Willie
Jones, Councillor Alam, Councillor Dornan, Councillor Hutchison

**Apologies**: Hannah Salome, Ruby Kelly, Betty Ross, Humza Yousaf MSP,
Councillor Richard Bell, Andre Videla, Che Campbell

Minute taker: John Foster

1.  MINUTES OF THE 2023 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING\
    These were moved as correct by Esme Clarke and Reinhild Gorniak and
    approved.

2.  OFFICERS REPORTS

<!-- -->

a)  Chair: Daniel O'Neill

> Danny reported that two public meetings had been held, advertised by
> the Royal Mail distribution of the Govan Letter to all residents, in
> November and March. The first had discussed policing with Insp Robert
> Anderson and heard a presentation on Maslows from Ruby Kelly. The
> second had focused on spending cuts locally and specifically those for
> housing with presentations from Karen Goodwin and Hannah Salome.
>
> The Community Council had met monthly with good representation from
> City Councillors and our MP (through Alistair Shaw) though not out
> MSP. Key issues had been the closure of bank facilities, public
> ownership of buses, cleansing and council cuts.

b)  Secretary: Esme Clark

> Esme expressed the Community Council's thanks to the late MP Chris
> Stephens and noted that contact had yet to be made to our new MP. She
> also thanked members of the Community Council who had been
> particularly active -- such as Annie Morgan on Elder Park and the
> Library, Gordon Mackay on banking facilities, Hannah on housing and
> homelessness, Andre Videla for restoring the website and Reinhild as
> Treasurer. She also stressed the wider contribution of Paul MacAlinden
> in terms of music and culture.

c)  Treasurer: Reinhild Gorniack

> The balance in the account for September was £5,363.20. She was taking
> steps to secure the auditing of annual accounts as soon as possible.

These reports were approved.

3.  ELECTION OF OFFICERS FOR THE COMING YEAR

> All were elected nem. con.
>
> Chair: Daniel O'Neill: nom Esme Clark and sec Reinhild Gorniak
>
> Vice Chair: Hannah Salome: Esme Clark and Reinhild Gorniak
>
> Secretary: Esme Clark: John Foster and Robert Preston
>
> Treasurer: Reinhild Gorniak: Annie Morgan and Esme Clark
>
> Minute Secretary: John Foster: Esme Clark and Annie Morgan#
>
> Media Secretary: Andre Videla: John Foster, Marie Davidson
>
> Representative on the Area Committee: Esme Clark: John Foster and
> Reinhild Gorniak
>
> Death of John Flanagan: Gordon Mackay reported a large attendance at
> the mass in St Anthony's on 6 September.

a)  **Cleansing**

> The situation in Govan was patchy ahead of the introduction of 'Bin
> Hubs' over coming months -- and remained particularly bad in parts of
> Elderpark and Central Govan. Councillors reported on the introduction
> so far in other parts of Glasgow as being effective in better off
> tenement areas -- not so good elsewhere, especially for recycling and
> the avoidance of dumping. Councillor Alam stressed that it was
> important to have effective local liaison and for leaflets in
> appropriate languages to be distributed.
>
> In terms of current problems of dumping in Govan, particularly in
> Crossloan Road and Elderpark Street, members raised the active use of
> the CCTV cameras installed some years ago to press charges against
> those responsible. Councillor Hutchison noted that the cameras were no
> longer monitored directly but that the recordings could be recalled
> for scrutiny and he would examine the possibility of a specific focus
> on these two streets.
>
> It was AGREED to return to this issue at the November meeting and
> invite Jim Ellis and again the representatives of the two Housing
> Associations.

b)  **Banking Services**

> Gordon MacKay reported that our late MP Chris Stephens had now handed
> over relevant correspondence. This indicated a fairly immediate but
> negative response to Chris's challenge to the proposed BoS closure --
> but little helpful in terms of reversing the bank's decision
>
> ii\) Current situation with cash machines: the machine at 920 Govan
> Road had been out of action for up to two weeks since September but
> was currently functioning. The other at the Post Office was
> malfunctioning and failing to issue notes to the value of what
> requested or reported on the slip (the Community Council should raise
> with Morrisons/Post Office)
>
> iii\) legal powers to challenge bank closures under auspices of the
> Financial Conduct Authority came into force in September but
> unfortunately did not apply retrospectively.
>
> iv\) there did remain opportunities for appeal under the Link
> procedure and to the FCA. It was AGREED that Our Chair, with support
> from Councillors, and as CC chair would explore. In terms of
> supporting evidence Gordon noted that Cambuslang, with many less
> commercial premises and a smaller immediate population, had been
> granted a Link, that the Bank in Byres Road was now closed and that,
> in terms of a safe cash machine Councillor Dornan had secured the
> agreement of the SPE for one in the Govan subway.

c)  **Bus Services**

> Our Chair gave a further report from Better Buses for Strathclyde.
> Glasgow Council appeared to have given up the proposal for a Bus
> Service Improvement Partnership and was now considering franchising --
> although the Scottish government legislation of 2019 remained
> critically incomplete. The overall policy position was not good with
> rising fares, in response to the return of peak fares on the railways,
> and erratic services. McGills continued, quite illegally, to refuse to
> give change.

d)  **Further cuts in council spending**

> It was agreed to comeback to this at the November meeting by which
> time the UK Chancellor would have made her Autumn Statement.

e)  **Future of the Lyceum**

> Our Secretary reported that the collecting of signatures from the
> Central Govan area was going well but needed to be stepped for
> completion. This would be highlighted in the Govan Letter.

f)  **Opening of the Mary Barbour Bridge**

> This had been a great success and would be covered in more detail in
> the Govan Letter in the article by our Secretary. There was particular
> appreciation of the work by Paul MacAlinden and the Govan Barons in
> organising the musical sessions on the following day. A letter had
> been sent to the City Council asking for the bridge to be named the
> Mary Barbour Bridge. It was AGREED further to contact Partick
> Community Council for support and to start the formal process of
> application using the forms provided by Councillor Hutchison

g)  **Fire and Rescue Services**

> Consultation on the future of the service in Govan would take place
> early next year. It was noted that recent reports indicated very
> significant cuts overall.

h)  **Elderpark Library**

> Annie Morgan raised the continuing problems resulting from the early
> closure (5 pm on all days except Monday and full closure on Sunday)
> for school work and also for local organisations, such as the Friends
> of Elder Park, that had previously relied on access to toilets and
> social space which was no longer available at key times such as
> Sundays. The Chair would be taking up the issue as a violation of the
> terms on which the Library was gifted by Lady Elder in 1903. Access to
> toilets should also be raised as part of the Council's more general
> consultation on access to public toilets.

i)  **Police Action at Thales**

> Our MSP Humza Yousaf had sent a holding response to our letter pending
> further discussions through the Scottish government with the Scottish
> Police Service. Annie Morgan proposed, and it was AGREED that a local
> member of the Glasgow Gaza Emergency Committee be invited to our
> November general meeting on 4 November to describe police actions and
> the resulting injuries.

4.OFFICERS' REPORTS: ISSUES HAD ALREADY BEEN COVERED

5.COMMUNITY COUNCIL ORGANISATION

a)  **The new Community Council website**

> Andre was continuing work and asked for assistance to maintain the
> site. Willie Jones agreed to help. The site was now active at
> <http://govancommunitycouncil.org>.

b)  **Venue for Community Council meetings**

> The Café in the Pearce Institute had been booked for the November
> meeting on 4 November and for **the public meeting on Thursday 14
> November at 7 p.m.**

c)  **The Autumn Govan Letter**

> *Timetable:*
>
> We should aim for Royal Mail distribution from 20 October ahead of our
> 14 November public meeting. This required the draft being given
> outline approval at the 7 October monthly meeting for submission to
> the printer on 14 October.
>
> *Content:*
>
> Outline **approval** was given by the meeting after the distribution
> of a draft. Cllr Alam suggested that the boundaries of the CC be
> indicated.

d)  **The Autumn public meeting now been rescheduled to14 November**

> **This** would have two sections a) Cllr Bell talking in personal
> capacity on issues of Council funding in Scotland (check availability)
> b) Cleansing with representatives of the City Council (Jim Ellis) and
> the two Housing Associations.

**6. COUNCILLORS' REPORTS**

**Councillor Dornan**

> Cllr Dornan reported plans for the return of a local Saturday market
> to the Cross area -- with the focus on affordable items. He also noted
> a planning application for the planting of four new trees at the
> Cross.
>
> **Councillor Alam**
>
> Cllr Alam addressed a general concern about reporting defects and
> issues to the City Council using electronic communication -- a method
> which not all local residents found easy. He was investigating how far
> a phone based system could be introduced as a supplement.
>
> **Councillor Hutchison**
>
> Issues raised covered earlier in the meeting.

4.  **DATE OF NEXT MEETING: MONTHLY MEETING MONDAY 4 NOVEMBER at 7 p.m.
    IN THE PEARCE INSTITUTE CAFE.**
