---
layout: post
title:  "General Meeting 3rd June 2024"
author: john
---

**GOVAN COMMUNITY COUNCIL**

**GENERAL MEETING MONDAY 3 JUNE 2024**

Held in the Board Room, Elderpark Workspace at 7 p.m.

Present: Esme Clark, Danny O'Neill, Hannah Salome, Reinhild Gorniack,
John Foster, Marie Davidson, Robert Preston, Gina Preston, Gordon
MacKay, Annie Morgan, Andre Videla, Cllr Imran Alam, Cllr Dornan,

Apologies:, Marie Davidson, Betty Ross, Ruby Kelly, Cllr Ricky Bell,
Cllr Dan Hutchison, Chris Stephens, Humza Yusaf MSP (who has not
attended since November 2016)

Minute taker: John Foster

1.  MINUTES OF THE MAY MEETING\
    These were moved as correct by Hannah Salome and Gordon Mackay.

2 MATTERS ARISING

a)  **Cleansing, environment, litter crisis and drains crisis**

> Issues were raised in particular by our Secretary and by Annie Morgan.
> Esme reported receiving as a householder a letter from Cleansing
> indicating the new bin colours and content regulations and the
> instruction that householders themselves must affix labels of the
> appropriate colour (black for paper; grey for plastics and cans (with
> a wider range of plastic types allowed than before); and blue for food
> waste. It was noted there would be a four week wait for grey stickers.
> Esme felt that this introduced quite unnecessary levels of
> complication which would militate against widespread response. Cllr
> Alam said he would investigate and indicated that as far he knew there
> had been no consultation with councillors. Annie Morgan reported
> problems of misuse accompanying the introduction of street based black
> bins in parts of Elderpark -- exampling babies' used nappies lying
> open in one of the bins outside the soon-to-be opened community
> grocers shop. She voiced fears about the introduction of 'hubs' in
> terms of potentially similar misuse and stressed that full community
> consultation would be essential. Annie also suggested that the
> Community Council invite a representative from the community-based
> partnership responsible for cleansing in Renfrewshire.
>
> It was NOTED that letters to the two Housing Association Executives,
> as agreed at the last meeting, had been written but the relevant
> correspondence with our Secretary had been delayed in the post,
> despite first class stamps, by over six days. Once we had a response
> we would also write to relevant officials in the City Council.
> Councillors were ASKED to identify how far additional staff had been
> recruited to Cleansing over the past six months.

b)  **Closure of Bank of Scotland: loss of cash machine**

> Gordon Mackay reported on actions taken since the last meeting
>
> i\) A letter to the Financial Conduct Authority had been sent on 23
> May describing the lack of any access to cash machines outside shop
> hours and proposing the Underground site as appropriate for an
> accessible replacement
>
> ii\) Arranging a meeting with a campaigning journalist, as agreed at
> the last meeting, for the coming Wednesday to brief them on our
> campaign and its legal basis.
>
> iii\) Identifying an official government paper issued in February this
> year entitled \"The Future of Banking Services and access to cash'
> that was highly relevant to our claims (in this connection Gordon had
> counted the number of shops in the relevant area of Govan as 121)
>
> iv\) Identified a statement issued by the Link Financial Group in 2021
> on the right to access to cash.
>
> Gordon was congratulated on his work. Cllr Alam said he would seek a
> letter of support from our four City councillors once Gordon had
> drafted further letters to Link and in response to our appeal to the
> FCA. We should also ask our late MP Chris Stephens to retain all his
> campaigning notes on this subject.

**c) Elder Park Library: Reopening and Provision of Café**

A letter had been written indicating our concern at the lack of a café
and the fact that the decision appeared to have been taken at the last
minute and without wider consultation. It was also indicated by
Councillors present that the library would not now open in June as a
result of snagging work. No new date had been set, possibly the end of
June, but the Community Council would be informed. It was also indicated
as likely that the Café space would be operated by the vol. org. Craft
Café.

**d) Community Notice Board in the Shopping Centre**

It was reported that the existing notice board was largely obscured. It
was AGREED to raise with Ms McAlinden, the area manager, a) the
Community's need for an effective notice board b) the willingness of the
Community Council to meet the financial costs of increasing the size of
the existing noticeboard and to provide adequate lighting in a more
accessible position.

**e) £1 million Infrastructure Improvement Fund**

A special meeting of the Area Committee will be held the following week
to decide on allocations.

**f) Show People's access to their site**

Little additional information was available as the issue was now before
the courts.

**g) Council cuts to services**

It was AGREED that councillors should seek to identify where cuts had
been made across the Council services and supply the next meeting with
details of the number of jobs lost

3\. BUS TRANSPORT

Agreed to comeback to this issue. The submission on franchising had been
sent to a consultant and no response was yet available.

4\. REPORTS ON CITY COUNCIL CUTS

It was AGREED that councillors should seek to identify where cuts had
been made across the Council services and supply the next meeting with
details of the number of jobs lost

5\. COMMUNITY COUNCIL PUBLIC MEETINGS

It was agreed to seek a further public meeting in later September. Betty
Ross was currently away but once she had returned the Minute Secretary
would seek to identify a date for the café in the Pearce Institute.

6\. GOVAN FAIR FRIDAY 7 JUNE

Members were asked to win support for attendance at the event. Some
fears expressed at how far adequate resources were available. It was
noted that some aspects (such as the schools football tournament)
remained very popular but in general the support from the remaining
shops and businesses in Govan was lower. It was AGREED to seek dialogue
with the Committee.

7\. SECRETARY'S REPORT

**Future of the Lyceum**

No further progress to report.

**Mary Barbour statue**

It was felt that some of the ideas expressed at the previous meeting on
further raising the profile of Mary Barbour might be achieved through
Glasgow's 850^th^ anniversary celebration fund in 2025 -- with bids
being agreed this coming autumn. We should continue with the proposal to
name the new bridge, 'the Mary Barbour bridge'.

8\. CHAIR'S REPORT: THE NEW SUBWAY CARRIAGES

Our Chair had provided a detailed report on the problems with the new
carriages. Councillor Dornan acknowledged some of the difficulties and
announced that dampers would be retrofitted this autumn to better
balance the carriages and reduce bouncing. The electronic signage
indicating train arrival times was also now (mainly) in operation.
Questions were, however, raised as to why -- three years after the
delivery of the new trains -- these problems had no been identified
earlier and why more appropriate technologies had not been employed to
overcome the 1890 track problems. Andre Vidola gave examples of
refurbished subways systems and some of the technologies that might have
been available to improve suspension. He also suggested that a published
timetable might eliminate some of the problems about informing
passengers of when trains were due.

It was AGREED to invite a representative of STP after the summer.

9\. TREASURER'S REPORT

Reinhild reported that there was currently £5863.21p in the Council's
account -- with most of the expenses from the public meeting met.
Reinhild was thanked for her work.

10\. COMMUNITY COUNCIL ORGANISATION

*a) Website*

Andre Vidola volunteered to take over the Council's now derelict website
from the Minute Secretary who would provide whatever technical detail he
still had.

*b) Membership*

It was noted that we had at least two active attenders who were by
residence eligible for membership and that we should seek to hold
by-elections in September or October. We should also actively avail
ourselves of the category of 'Associate Member' for those who lived
outside the area but contributed to the work of the Council. Again this
should be taken formally at an Autumn meeting.

*c) Venue for meetings*

Betty had been away and the Minute Secretary had not been able to
confirm availability of the PI café. He would do so in the next
fortnight.

*d) Next issue of the Govan Letter*

it was agreed that we should seek to issue this in September ahead of
our Autumn public meeting.

11\. COUNCILLOR'S REPORTS

**Councillor Dornan** reported on the success of Park Villa's Festival
of Football over the previous weekend. He also indicated that the Café
space in the Library would be occupied, through Elderpark Housing, by
the Craft Café.

Councillor Alam reported he was in touch with the Director of Libraries,
Andrew Olney, about the reopening of the Library. He also reported the
final repair of the roundabout on Edmiston Road.

**Councillor Hutchison** had sent a note reporting a) a consultative
meeting on the Fire and Rescue Service in September and on the SPT in
October.

12\. ANY OTHER BUSINESS

**a) Survey on the use of the Pearce Institute: Copies available from
Ruby at Maslows**

**13. NEXT MEETING MONDAY 8 JULY at 7 p.m. in Elderpark Workspace**
