GOVAN COMMUNITY COUNCIL

MINUTES OF GENERAL MEETING

MONDAY 7 FEBRUARY 2023

Present: Esme Clark, Allan Bell, Reinhild Gorniack, Annie Morgan, Danny
O'Neill, John Foster, Jackie McColl, Robert Preston, Gina Preston,
Councillors Alam and Dornan

Apologies: Betty Ross, Cllrs Bell and Hutchison

Minute Secretary: John Foster

1.MINUTES OF JANUARY MEETING

These were moved as correct by Danny O'Neill and Esme Clark

2\. SPEAKERS

a)  **Paul MacAlindin** to speak on Govan's Music Festival 15-18 March:
    not able to be present.

b)  **Susan Burn** -- Community Engagement Officer, Govan Housing
    Association, attended to describe her role and to strengthen
    involvement with the Community Council in joint initiatives to
    improve our locality. Her work involved liaison with all tenants of
    the Association across the Greater Govan Area and also the
    Association's 500 factored owners. Since taking up office she had
    organised the Govan Gala and numerous events that enabled tenants to
    strengthen active engagement with the work of the Association. Her
    department issued regular bulletins and information sheets, offered
    annual grants to local voluntary organisations (up to £500 each),
    held open meetings for tenants and had sponsored clean up
    initiatives. The next community litterpick was on 24^th^ February at
    2.30 p.m. Discussion picked up the issue of litter and dog fouling
    -- and also the robustness of procedures by which tenants could get
    speedy remediation of emergencies and repairs. Susan was thanked for
    her attendance and the Chair indicated that it would be important to
    maintain liaison in terms of future work.

c)  **Brian McMahon** -- project manager for the redevelopment of the
    Lyceum Cinema. Brian described plans to redevelop the building
    with a) a cinema b) a café associated with the cinema b) a venue for
    licenced functions. He reported that a Section 50 permission had
    been secured from the Planning Committee for such uses but that
    plans had yet to go to Building Control and to Licensing. It would
    be a commercial venture with no public funding. The cinema had
    potential capacity for 2,000 -- though modern style seating might
    reduce this to 440 and there was also thought being given to two
    screens. The catering would be limited to café style with no cooking
    on the premises itself.

> In discussion issues were raised about parking (there was virtually
> none currently in central Govan and the situation was likely to get
> worse rather than better), about the current status and repair of the
> building (Brian indicated that the main cinema area was wind and
> watertight -- although there was wet and dry rot requiring treatment.
> Councillors Alam and Dornan raised questions about legal process and
> how far the remedial work and proposed uses would match criteria for
> licensing and building control.
>
> Brian said he would return in six month once plans had proceeded
> further and offered to organised a visit to the building.

3\. LITTER AND DOG FOULING

Annie Morgan has asked that this be put early on the agenda. It was
generally agreed that the level of litter, of all kinds, and dog fouling
had reached a level that required collective action. Descriptions were
made of the situation in the streets around Elder Park. It agreed that
this experience matched that in parts of Central Govan as well. It was
noted that the one street sweeper employed by the Council was doing an
excellent job - but there appeared to be only one such street sweeper
and the task required significantly more. Annie Morgan noted that she
had herself organised community clean ups but that the scale of the
problem made it difficult to sustain these voluntary efforts

Following discussion it was agreed that:

a)  A letter be sent to Chief Executive of the City Council, copied to
    Jim Ellis and to local councillors describing this situation and
    requesting a) how many street sweepers were allocated to the Govan
    CC area b) that this number be increased c) requesting that
    Community Safety officers be made available to take on their
    previous role of responding to local requests to prosecute and fine
    identified dog fouling offenders -- in liaison with local residents
    and housing organisations -- and that, as had been done previously,
    posters be displayed locally indicating that such offences would be
    prosecuted.

b)  A copy of this letter be sent to the three local HAs, Govan,
    Elderpark and Wheatley, with a cover letter asking that they also
    make representations to the City Council, and liaise with Community
    Safety about disseminating information (including the serious health
    hazards, especially for children, arising from dog fouling).

5.MATTERS ARISING

> **Bus Franchising**
>
> This issue was held over to the March meeting.

6\. MEETING WITH HUMZA YOUSAF MSP

This meeting, scheduled for Friday, had again been cancelled. A note had
been received giving a response from Patrick Harvie as relevant minister
to the outcome of the Community Council's petition of the appeal rights
of Scottish Special Housing Tenants. Briefer comments had been sent on
the other issues raised and an offer of a new meeting or briefing made.
It was agreed that our Vice Chair should respond.

7\. PROPOSAL FOR A PUBLIC MEETING ON THE COST OF LIVING CRISIS ON 5
APRIL

A room in the Pearce Institute had been booked 7-9 pm (Billiards Room)
at the cost of £50. We would return to the issue of speakers, as
detailed in the January minutes, at our next meeting.

8\. PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION OF THE NEXT ISSUE OF THE GOVAN LETTER

This should be produced early in March, with a proof going to the March
meeting, for distribution over the weeks prior to the April 5 public
meeting. The meeting authorised spending to enable the commercial
distribution of the Letter to 2,000 houses within our area (just under
half the total for the CC area). The meeting also authorised the
printing of 2,250 copies of the Bulletin.

9\. SECRETARY'S REPORT

Gordon McKay had written requesting representations be made to the SPT
for notice to be displayed at the Govan Cross Bus station listing buses
and their routes. It was agreed that this be done.

10\. COUNCILLORS'S REPORTS

**Councillor Alam**

**Ibrox Library and local library services**

It was planned to close the Ibrox Library for refurbishment once the
Elderpark Library was again open. He also mentioned the danger of budget
cuts reducing library services.

**Full Council meeting next week to set the budget for the coming year**

Councillor Alam feared cuts across the board with Glasgow Life
particularly vulnerable.

**Ukrainean refugees: finding alternative accommodation**

The cruise liner currently in KGV dock accommodating refugees was being
repurposed and new accommodation would have to be found. Some refugees
will go to Dundee but alternative local accommodation was problematic.

In this connection the meeting noted that the danger of extreme
right-wing elements exploiting the situation -- as had been done with
the accommodation for Albanian asylum seekers in Erskine at the weekend
-- and we should be alert and if required liaise with East Govan and
Ibrox CCs.

**John Kane**

Cllr Alam noted that the previous councillor for Govan was seriously
ill. The meeting offered its best wishes for a speedy recovery.

**11. DATE OF NEXT MEETING: MONDAY 6 MARCH at 7 p.m. in ELDERPARK
WORKSPACE**
