---
layout: post
title:  "General Meeting 4th November 2024"
author: john
---

**GOVAN COMMUNITY COUNCIL**

**GENERAL MEETING MONDAY 4 NOVEMBER 2024**

Held in the Pearce Institute at 7 p.m.

**Present**: Esme Clark, Annie Morgan, Danny O'Neill, Reinhild Gorniak,
Hannah Salone, John Foster, Gordon Mackay, Robert Preston, Gina Preston,
Marie Davidson, Ruby Kelly, Andre Videla, Claire Dickson, Barratt Singh,
Councillor Alam, Councillor Bell, Councillor Hutchison In attendance Dr
Elizabeth Eldridge

**Apologies**: Betty Ross, Humza Yousaf MSP, Councillor Dornan, Che
Campbell

Minute taker: John Foster

1.  MINUTES OF THE OCTOBER MEETING\
    These were moved as correct by Robert Preston and Gina Preston

2.  MATTERS ARISING

<!-- -->

a)  **Cleansing, environment, housing and roads**

> Under this heading our Vice Chair raised the issue of poverty and
> homelessness in Govan and the number of vacant Housing Association
> houses. It was AGREED to have this as an item at our December meeting
> with representatives from our two Housing Associations and Hannah
> making an introduction. We should also invite Jim Ellis to talk on
> cleansing issues.
>
> Under this heading there was also a discussion of parking and road
> maintenance. An immediate danger was posed by three potholes on the
> north side of Govan Road outside the maritime heritage museum causing
> cars and bikes to move into the bus lane. Illegally parked cars also
> constituted a hazard for cyclists and pedestrians. Cllr Bell outlined
> plans to recruit more parking attendants (and the difficulties). In
> response to Andre Videla Cllr Hutchison detailed the plans to
> systematically upgrade cycle lanes over the coming two years as part
> of the Active Travel agenda that would involve improved lighting and
> pavements and the removal of parking from the north side of Govan
> Road. However, general doubts were expressed about the proposal for
> extending the use of Caithness slabs in paved areas (very slippery).
>
> There was a plea from Annie Morgan that that we remember that improved
> and cheaper bus services would make a major contribution to road
> safety and that support needed to be maintained for the Beter Buses
> Campaign.

b)  **Banking Services**

> Gordon MacKay and our Secretary had written (28 October) to the Chief
> Executive of the Financial Conduct Authority asking if, under the new
> regulations that came into force earlier this year, the FCA had the
> power to retrospectively review banking provision and to require the
> installation of cash machines or to designate a bank to do so. No
> reply had so far been received. Gordon noted that the Royal Bank had
> closed another three branches in areas adjacent to Govan. Current
> practice seemed to indicate that the introduction of 'banking hubs'
> was being limited to what were considered 'rural areas' (though
> including Cambuslang).

c)  **Bus Services**

> Our Chair continued to attend the meetings of the Better Buses
> campaign. Thought needed to be given how to boost the campaign locally
> given Govan had one of the lowest levels of car ownership in Scotland.

d)  **Council Budgets over coming years**

> Councillor Bell outlined what was known about the 30 October
> Westminster Budget and its implications for Scotland. In general it
> promised some improvement for the next two years (mainly focused on
> the NHS, education and housing) - though less thereafter. However,
> there remained a major uncertainty over whether the liability for
> higher employer NI contributions would be mitigated for local
> authorities. If not, Glasgow would face liabilities of up to £50
> million and further cuts. Even if granted, the somewhat lower level of
> pay in English local authorities would mitigate against Scottish
> payments.

e)  **Future of the Lyceum**

> Our Secretary reported that we were near the end of Phase I: the
> collecting of signatures for a Petition for a Trust that would legally
> secure powers to require the owner to offer the building for sale to
> the people of Govan before offering it for sale elsewhere. If granted,
> this would open the way for Phase II to secure funding for the Trust
> to acquire the building and redevelop it. Cllr Bell noted that 30
> architecture students in year 3 at Strathclyde University had been
> given an individual project to draw up plans to convert the building
> for community use.

f)  **Opening of the Mary Barbour Bridge**

> A letter had been sent to Partick Community Council asking for support
> for naming the Bridge. This issue would come before the relevant City
> Council Committee on 12 December.

g)  **Fire and Rescue Service cuts**

> No further information but needing to be kept under review.

h)  **Elderpark Library**

> The Chair was investigating the legal force of the terms on which the
> Library was gifted by Lady Elder in 1903 by which the Library should
> be open on a Sunday. It was agreed to approach Mike Daillie of Govan
> Law Centre.

3.  SPEAKER: DR ELIZABETH ELDRIDGE ON POLICE ACTIONS AT THALES AND GOVAN
    CROSS ON 3 JULY

> Dr Eldridge had been invited to give direct participant information on
> the actions of the police on 3 July at the Thales Plant and
> subsequently at Govan Underground station. Dr Eldridge is a member of
> the Glasgow Gaza Emergency Committee and attended the demonstration to
> protest against Thales's manufacture of parts for drones for use by
> Israel in its bombardment of Gaza.
>
> Dr Eldridge reported that the actions of the police that day were
> quite out of proportion to the actions and number of demonstrators and
> more aggressive than those on any other demonstration she had
> witnessed. There had been some initial violence by police at Thales
> when she arrived at 9 am. By 11 am three demonstrators had been
> concussed by police batons and all were kettled. The police then
> escorted them back to Govan Cross. There they found 25 police cars
> blocking exits and the underground station closed. Then for between 12
> and 15 minutes police set on the demonstrators at random and without
> provocation using truncheons and pepper sprays. One women sustained
> injuries that required several stitches in her skull. Some attempts
> were made to video the violence but were resisted by police.
> Subsequently a local commercial premises allowed some of organisers to
> view their camera footage -- which showed the full level of the
> violence and its unprovoked but organised character. Since then the
> owners have withdrawn permission for its use for legal purposes.
>
> In discussion it was noted that the Community Council had already
> written to our MSP Humza Yousaf asking him to raise with Police
> Scotland. His reply was read. He had been told by Police Scotland that
> individual cases were sub-judice but that one assault by the police
> had ben referred to the Independent Police Watchdog.
>
> In discussion it was agreed that Community Council officers should
> request a meeting with relevant officers at Govan Police Station --
> and seek information as to the police numbers attending at Govan
> underground, the reasons for this concentration and how far they were
> local police, Scottish or Met. The three Councillors attending agreed
> to make similar enquiries with the Chief Constable/Police
> Superintendent at Glasgow level and probe the availability of CCTV
> footage. Councillor Hutchison agreed to act as an independent observer
> at future demonstrations.

4.OFFICERS' REPORTS

**Chair**

All relevant areas had been covered

**Secretary**

> Our Secretary raised a letter from Pat Cassidy asking for endorsement
> of a funding application to the National Lottery to allow the
> competition of restoration work and facilities at the Govan Old as
> well as to the further development of the community-based
> archaeological work on the ancient site. This was AGREED.

**Treasurer**

> Our Treasurer reported that we had £5081.44p in the account prior to
> payment of bills for the production and distribution of the Autumn
> Govan Letter. The accounts would then be audited for presentation to
> the City Council subsequent to approval at our December meeting.

5.COMMUNITY COUNCIL ORGANISATION

a)  **The new Community Council website**

> Andre was continuing work and asked for assistance to maintain the
> site. Minute Secretary to contact Willie Jones and also supply missing
> Govan Letters and minutes.

b)  **Venue for Community Council meetings**

> The new venue in the Pearce Institute was judged to be far more
> convenient than the Workspace in Elderpark.

c)  **Arrangements for public meeting on Thursday 14 November in the
    Pearce Institute**.

> This had been advertised in the Govan Letter being distributed to all
> households in Govan. A supplementary leaflet was distributed giving
> details and speakers: Stephen Low, policy officer for Unison Scotland
> and Barry McAreavey, relevant branch officer for the GMB.

d)  **The Autumn Govan Letter**

> This was now being distributed across the Govan area. Thanks were
> given to all those who helped produce and to our Chair who had again
> to deal with Royal Mail.

6\. COUNCILLORS REPORTS

> **Councillor Alan** reported that the request for the naming of the
> Bridge as the Mary Barbour Bridge would come before the Council on 12
> December.
>
> **Councillor Bell** had already contributed substantively to the
> discussion of the Westminster budget's implications for Scotland and
> specifically for Glasgow. He had also outlined the legal steps
> required for the return of the Lyceum for use by the Community.
>
> **Councillor Hutchison** reported that a meeting in Elderpark Library
> on 12 November would see the signing off of grants under the Community
> Fund, that negotiations were taking place for the restoration of the
> Farmers' Market at the Cross and, finally, that the 2024 Christmas
> tree at Govan Cross would be lit at 6 p.m. on the 6 December.

4.  **DATE OF NEXT MEETING: MONDAY 2 DECEMBER at 7 p.m. in THE PEARCE
    INSTITUTE**
