---
layout: post
title:  "General Meeting 2nd December 2024"
author: john
---

**GOVAN COMMUNITY COUNCIL**

**GENERAL MEETING MONDAY 2 DECEMBER 2024**

Held in the Pearce Institute at 7 p.m.

**Present**: Esme Clark, Danny O'Neill, John Foster, Robert Preston,
Gina Preston, Ruby Kelly, Willie Jones, Greg Burns.

A**pologies**: Reinhild Gorniak, Annie Morgan, Gordon Mackay, Marie
Davidson, Andre Videla, Betty Ross, Humza Yousaf MSP, Cllr Alam, Cllr
Bell, Cllr Dornan, Cllr Hutchison

Minute taker: John Foster

1.  MINUTES OF THE NOVEMBER MEETING\
    These were moved as correct by Robert Preston and Esme Clark

2.  MATTERS ARISING

<!-- -->

a)  **Cleansing, environment, housing and roads**

> It was agreed to further discuss at our January meeting issues of
> poverty and homelessness in Govan, and other housing issues, as
> preparation for an invitation to the two Housing Associations to
> attend our February meeting. We should also invite Jim Ellis to talk
> on cleansing issues.

b)  **Road maintenance**

> Our Secretary had sent a letter to Roads on the dangerous potholes on
> the north side of Govan Road at the Heritage Centre. It was reported
> that these had now been filled. It was, however, also noted that a
> letter to Roads a couple of months ago on the state of the pavement on
> the east-side of Pease Street had not so far resulted in action and
> the pavement between Brechins Bar and Harmony Row was in poor
> condition and also dangerous in winter conditions. It was also AGREED
> to raise the issue of arrangements for the gritting of roads and
> pavements during the winter season. Steps taken during the cold snap
> over the past fortnight were deemed inadequate.

c)  **Active Travel consultation on road modification to improve cycling
    safety**

> Andre Videla was thanked for his very full and helpful outline of the
> plans. These had been distributed to Community Council members. During
> further discussion some additional issues were raised about the
> practicality of some aspects for both pedestrians and cars. It was
> noted that the time period for consultation and response had been
> remarkably short and it was AGREED that a request be made via Cllr
> Hutchison for an extension of the time period (copy to Eamon Campbell
> of Sustrans who took the meeting on behalf of the City Council).

d)  **Lyceum**

> The meeting expressed concern that, despite submission of the
> community petition for the disused building to be taken into
> public/community ownership as the first stage of establishing a
> charity for its further development (backed by Govan Community Council
> and most local organisations including CGAP), features had appeared in
> local papers, without community consultation, in support of an
> alternative proposal identified with current owner of the site. These
> articles suggested that the counter proposal had the support of some
> elected representatives. The Chair will seek to clarify the situation
> with those mentioned.

e)  **Police actions on 5 July at Govan underground**

> The Chair had written to the Chief Constable asking for an explanation
> of police tactics at Govan Cross underground on 5 July against those
> who had been previously demonstrating outside Thales against the
> manufacture of weapons for use by Israel. No reply had yet been
> received. It was understood that similar protests had been made by
> Councillors.
>
> Arising from this item, Willie Jones asked whether police
> representatives were invited to our meetings. Our Secretary explained
> that there was a standing invitation but that a) because Monday was a
> 'change-over' day for shifts and b) because of reduced staffing levels
> there had been no regular attendance for some time -- although there
> had been annual special occasions on which police attendance had been
> possible.

f)  **Community Council Public meeting 20 November**

> Around 20 people attended the meeting to hear a report on cuts to
> public services and council budgets given by Unison Policy Officer
> Stephen Low. Despite a very informative presentation it was felt that
> the discussion that followed was too dominated by personal issues.
> These, though genuinely arising from that way issues were dealt with
> by local housing providers and by the City Council, had not made for a
> fuller and effective discussion of policy.

g)  **Naming of the new bridge**

> The City Council Committee recommendation would be made on 12
> December. A letter had been sent to Partick Community Council asking
> for support but no reply appeared to have been received.

h)  **Fire and Rescue Services**

> There was no further information ahead of the review in the New Year.
> It was agreed to contact the FBU for further briefing when this review
> was announced.

3.  BANKING SERVICES

> Gordon MacKay had given apologies but had sent notes to accompany a
> response to our latest letter from the Financial Conduct Authority.
> This outlined its new powers (including their limits) but did stress,
> as triggers for review, the severity of cuts to banking services (in
> terms of access to alternative locations) and the age of the
> population. Our Chair noted that the RBS had now closed virtually all
> branches apart from one in central Glasgow and it was agreed that we
> should respond using both age and alternative locations in our call
> for a review (including reference to FCA's former intervention for the
> creation of a banking hub in Cambuslang). It was suggested that an
> approach be made to Workspace and to CGAP asking for support to stress
> the importance of banking services to local small businesses and
> economic regeneration -- and that mention should be made of the public
> investment in the new bridge as part of this process.

4.  OPENING HOURS OF ELDERPARK LIBRARY

> Our Chair reported that he had completed an initial assessment of the
> Deeds of Gift from Lady Elder, which confirmed the condition made for
> Sunday opening, and had contacted Mike Dailey of the Govan Law Centre
> who was keen to take the case forward. He also noted that 1912
> amalgamation of Glasgow and Govan local authorities required the
> taking over of legal commitments from Govan Burgh.

5.  OFFICERS' REPORTS

> **Chair**
>
> All issues had been covered.
>
> **Secretary**
>
> The letter requesting support from the National Lottery for further
> excavation work at Govan Old, via Pat Cassidy, had been sent.
>
> **Treasurer**
>
> Our Secretary had been in contact with our Treasurer and with Money
> Matters about the auditing our accounts and the need to secure signed
> copies for despatch to the City Council before Christmas if possible
> and at the latest before 31 December.

6.  COMMUNITY COUNCIL ORGANISATION

<!-- -->

a)  **Our website**

> Andre was congratulated on on-going work and his appeal for assistance
> noted. Our minute Secretary would try to retrieve more of the former
> minutes. Willie Jones volunteered to work on a GCC Facebook site and
> this was welcomed.

b)  **Autumn Govan Letter**

> Royal Mail delivery had again proved patchy. It was felt that in
> future we should ourselves also try to use all venues with public
> access (including shops, schools and pubs) in addition to the
> distribution already done by our Secretary (Health Centre, Housing
> Associations, Post Offices, Maslows, PI).

7.  OTHER BUSINESS

<!-- -->

a)  **Farmers' Market at Cross**: discussions were advanced about
    re-establishing a market at the Cross (David Cairns of City Markets)

b)  **Area Partnership Grants**: successful bids will be announced in
    January

c)  **Elder Park and graffiti on Portico**

> Willie Jones reported on progress in redeveloping the Rose Garden but
> also the graffiti attacks on the Portico -- now cleaned but with
> danger of repetition

8.  DATE OF NEXT MEETING

> This would be the **[second]{.underline} Monday of January: 13^th^ at
> 7 p.m.** in the Pearce Institute.
