---
layout: post
title:  "General Meeting 7th July 2025"
author: john
date: 2025-07-07
---

**GOVAN COMMUNITY COUNCIL**

**MINUTES OF GENERAL MEETING**

**MONDAY 7 JULY 2025**

Held in the Pearce Institute at 7 p.m.

**Present**: Esme Clark, Danny O'Neill, John Foster, Reinhild Gorniack, Robert Preston, Georgina Preston, Annie Morgan, Andre Videla, Claire Dickson, Annie Melvin, Katherine McNab, Mary Phillips

**Apologies**: Ruby Kelly, Marie Davidson, Betty Ross, Gordon Mackay, Cllr Alam, Cllr. Dornan, Cllr Hutchison, Cllr Bell, Humza Yousaf MSP, Dr Ahmed MP

Minute taker: John Foster

1.  MINUTES OF THE JUNE MEETING
    These were moved as correct by Esme Clark and Gina Preston

2. MATTERS ARISING

> b\) **Walk around Govan with Jim Ellis on 11 June** Our Secretary reported that unfortunately not many members had taken the opportunity to attend and raise issues about cleansing and the local environment with Jim Ellis and representatives of the three Housing Associations. However, she had organised a very useful exchange with the four representatives in the Pearce Institute café. It was agreed that we should come back to these issues when Jim Ellis attended the Community Council at its September meeting and ask Jonathan Gittings-Reid to attend also.
>
> c\) **Liaison between local housing associations on housing issues** It was hoped to maintain and strengthen the links established on 11 June.
>
> d\) **Shortage of social housing** It was agreed to return to this issue as raised at our public meeting in June.
>
> e\) **Rent levels being charged for 'mid-market' rent properties** It was hoped to get an article for the Autumn letter on continuing actions to ensure rents were not further increased next year or the year after.
>
> f\) **Active Travel, Road Safety and the current condition of roads** There was no further information on the Active Travel consultation. Our Secretary noted that most people in Govan walked rather than either cycling or driving cars. A significant number were also elderly. One key element of an Active Travel plan should therefore be to ensure that there were safe pavements and that the experience of walking was pleasant with the elimination of broken paving, waste hazards and flooding – and possibly even some flowers. This would also benefit those who came into Govan to visit the Govan Stones and other historic sites. The meeting noted Central Govan Action Plan’s call for a £20m refurbishment of streetscapes and river frontage and also the need to mend the traffic lights at the south end of Craigton Road at Edmiston Drive (no longer flashed green for pedestrians). Our Chair stressed the flooding of pedestrian crossings both north and south of the Underground station and that it was now planned to insert cameras in the drain to identify the obstruction.
>
> g\) **Police Actions at Govan Subway last Summer** Annie reported via Chrissie Eldridge on the trials that had taken place over the previous couple of weeks of those protesting against complicity in genocide in Gaza. Some of those arrested had been fined and others sentenced to community service. The most severely injured demonstrator, requiring stiches to her skull, was admonished. As the trials were coming to a close it was agreed that it would be appropriate to invite the Chief Inspector for G Division to our next meeting to discuss police tactics on the day. Our Chair noted that photographic evidence had now emerged which appeared to show that the police had assembled, with significant numbers of cars and vans, at the underground station well before the column of kettled demonstrators arrived. This apparent planning should be raised. It was agreed that we also write to both our local MSP and our MP.
>
> h\) **Naming of the Bridge: Petition to City Council** This had still not been scheduled for Committee. Cllr Hutchison said he would table a motion in September.
>
> i\) **Rights of pre-1989 Scottish special tenants** No response yet from Mike Dailly.
>
> j\) **Community Cohesion in face of rise in racist and anti-immigrant sentiment** The minute secretary had assembled materials on the previous initiative, named Communities United, taken in face of local activities by the National Front in the 1980s and associated racist attacks on shops and individuals. It was agreed that we consider approaching other local community councils in the autumn, as had been done previously, and to seek a comprehensive response across G51.
>
> k\) **Conditions in Elder Park and its environs and plans for the Elder Park Festival on Saturday 16 August** Annie detailed the events at the Festival. It would be a family day with something for everyone. It would start at 12 noon and end at 8 p.m. There would be stalls for all local projects. The Community Council would take a stall to publicise its history and its AGM. It was agreed to nominate for the Unsung heroes award Dot Courtney and Pat Cassidy. In preparation Annie and others present stressed the importance of clearing and cleansing approach roads and also the Park. The pond remained a particular problem and it was AGREED to write specifically on this to Jim Ellis.

3\. ARRANGEMENTS FOR OUR ELECTIONS THIS AUTUMN

> The minute secretary had been in correspondence with the City Council. They had responded earlier that day that detailed arrangements had not been finalised but we would be free to advertise the date for our elections as that for our October AGM (6 October). The timetable for nominations and associated advertising materials would be made available later. It was agreed we should enquire whether the elections could be postponed to November to give more time for preparation. As this was unlikely, we should proceed on the assumption that, as on previous occasions, securing nominations would take place in August (and possibly the first week of September) and produce relevant materials ourselves as well as the statutory notices issued by the City Council. This should include a special issue of the Govan Letter (also marking our 50th anniversary) and a short history of the work undertaken by the Community Council (a draft was submitted to the meeting). We should also specifically canvas to improve the diversity of the Community Council.

4\. ORGANISATION

> **Chair** Danny indicated that we should invite our MP to attend our September meeting – as it would not clash with the parliamentary session. It was important to maintain liaison. He also detailed the activities of the Community Trust currently being established to buy up disused shop properties and ensure they are used for purposes that will assist our community. The lead was being taken by Ruby Kelly for Maslows and a number of other people with relevant expertise were now involved including Cllr Hutchison. The meeting gave it its full support. Correspondence had been received from those responsible for consultation on fire and rescue service closures. The Govan consultation meeting will be held on **Thursday 31 July at 6 – 8 p.m. in the Pearce Institute.** It would be important as many members of the Community Council as possible be present.
>
> **Secretary** Our Secretary reported from Central Govan Action Plan including on matters reported above on Active Travel. Esme also raised the issue of the 10 hours closure of the Bridge as a result, it seemed, of wind pressure, after being raised for the passage of the Waverly with no notice of reason for the closure or of when it might end. It was AGREED to write to the City Council proposing that, as with the Renfrew Bridge, times for the opening of the Bridge be given as well as explanations for special failures due to extreme weather or other causes. Our Secretary also reported on the Glasgow Barons Festival of Early Music in Govan Old Parish Church on 25-27th July. As culture correspondent for the Govan Letter, she will be attending and she encouraged others to do so.

4\. GOVAN LETTER AUTUMN ISSUE

> The minute secretary reported that we should aim to align with the election preparations which, in all likelihood, would mean producing for distribution through August. Proposals for content were tabled – including a significant amount of space being devoted to the fifty years of our history. It was agreed to experiment with a new method of distribution.

5\. DATE OF NEXT MEETING MONDAY 1 SEPTEMBER PEARCE INSTITUTE at 7 pm

---
