---
layout: post
title:  "Annual General Meeting and General Meeting 6th October 2025"
author: greg
date: 2025-10-06
categories: minutes
---

**GOVAN COMMUNITY COUNCIL**  
**MINUTES OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING**   
**MONDAY 6 OCTOBER 2025**  
Held in the Pearce Institute at 7 p.m. 

**Present**: Greg Burns, Katherine Carabine, Esme Clark, Marie Davidson, Claire Dickson, Greg Easton, John Foster, Reinhild Gorniak, Ruby Kelly, Danny O’Neill, Robert Preston, Georgina Preston, Madeleine Skeoch, Dorota Lebioda, Kara Dooley, Cllr Dan Hutchison, Dr Zubir Ahmed MP, Fraser Grant-Rae, Assistant to Dr Ahmed  
**Apologies:** Maria Moody**,** Annie Morgan, Willie Jones, André Videla, Betty Ross, Gordon Mackay, Cllr Alam, Cllr Bell, Cllr Dornan.  
Minute taker: Greg Easton

**THE 2025 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING**   
**AND ELECTION OF MEMBERS AND OFFICERS FOR THE COMING FIVE YEAR SESSION**  
THE CHAIR was taken initially by the outgoing Chair, Daniel O’Neil, then for the election of officers by Kara Dooley representing the City Council and for the October monthly meeting by the newly elected Chair: Claire Dickson   
    
1\.**Attendance and apologies received**: recorded above

2\.**Minutes of the 2024 AGM**  
These were presented by the outgoing chair and approved.

**3\. Report from the outgoing Chair**  
The Outgoing Chair Danny O’Neill reported that the Council had met for ten monthly meetings, had held public meetings: one on local government finance with Stephen Low, Unison Policy Officer; and another meeting led by Ruby Kelly from Maslows on issues of social need, and Pat Cassidy on the role of Govan Workspace over the past forty years. Meetings were also held with representatives of local housing associations on the housing issues in the area and housing crisis in the wider city.

Three issues of the Govan Letter had been distributed to all households – covering on-going campaigns and updates, and a special edition on the Community Council’s fifty years of local campaigning.  

Danny noted some important campaign victories over the past year including ensuring the Sunday opening of the Elder Park Library and giving support to tenants in Water Row in their victory against disproportionate rent increases.  He also congratulated the Friends of Elder Park on the success of their Summer Festival. Additionally, Danny attended a meeting for Get Glasgow Moving and continues to keep tabs on the future of public transport provision for the area. 

The Report was approved and those present gave a round of applause for Danny’s work over the past years. 

**4\. Report from the outgoing Treasurer**  
The outgoing Treasurer Reinhild Gorniak reported that the accounts were awaiting audit.  The balance for the year was £2,932.47.  She hoped that in future the process of accounting could be made simpler for all and perhaps in need of modernisation.  Reinhild also asked the Council to take note that the annual cost of premises for the meetings was £600. However, she also felt that the Council had quite sufficient reserves to cover for all eventualities over the coming period.  Reinhild was thanked for her meticulous work over the previous years.   

The Report was approved and the outgoing Treasurer thanked

**5\. Report from the outgoing Secretary**  
The outgoing Secretary Esme Clark noted the successful intervention of herself and Willie Jones with the Asda manager to secure a gate at the exit which trapped trolleys (and the subsequent major reduction in abandoned trolleys on the streets).  She congratulated Pat Cassidy and the team at Govan Old for the development of archaeological work, enhancing its archaeological importance. She also noted the Community Council’s intervention with Active Travel to safeguard pedestrians and access for local businesses.  Esme also welcomed the new Clyde pedestrian bridge and hoped that the Community Council’s initiative to have it named the Mary Barbour bridge would be successful.

Esme was thanked for her work over many years and her public representation of the Community Council.

*At this point outgoing officers demitted their positions and Kara Dooley took the chair as representative of the City Council.*  

**6\. Announcement of members for the new term of the Community Council**  
Kara listed the following as having lodged valid nominations.  Being eleven in number out of fourteen places, there was no requirement for an election.  The new membership of the Community Council was then declared as:   
Esme Clark  
Betty Ross  
Reinhild Gorniak  
Annie Morgan  
Greg Easton  
Madeleine Skeoch  
Katherine Carabine  
Marie Davidson  
Marie Moody  
Willie Jones

**7\. Call for nominations of Office Bearers for the coming session**  
The following officers were declared elected without contest.  
Chair: Clare Dickson nominated by Esme Clark and seconded Reinhild Gorniak  
Vice Chair: Willie Jones nominated Reinhild Gorniak and seconded Esme Clark  
Secretary: Greg Easton nominated by Esme Clark and Madeline    \[Greg would also take over the functions of Minute Secretary\]  
Treasurer:  It was agreed to ask Maria Moody, who had relevant experience but was currently ill with ‘flu, to take this position and to return to it at the November meeting

The following representatives were agreed:  
Area Partnership lead member  Madeline Skeoch  
Area Partnership Substitute:  Greg Easton  
Area Partnership Substitute: Esme Clark  
Planning Contact and Licensing Contact: Madeline Skeoch

**At this point Claire Dickson took the Chair**  
  .  
**8\. Scheme for the Establishment of Community Councils**  
The Scheme’s continuation was noted for the coming session

**9\. Appointment of Independent Examiner for the coming year**  
It was agreed to ask Geraldine Cotter, director of Money Matters, to continue in this role. Arrangements will be made before the next meeting.

**10\. Appointment of Associate Members**  
The following were agreed by the meeting:  
Greg Burns  
John Foster  
Ruby Kelly  
Robert Preston (also representing Govan Reminiscence Group)  
Gina Preston  
Danny O’Neill  
André Videla (responsible for the website)

**11\. Review the inventory and additional resources under the Scheme**  
There were none apart from accumulated funds.  Kara Dooley noted the availability of funds for purchases such as computing equipment.

**12\. Chairperson declares date for the AGM for the coming year**  
The first Monday in October was agreed and the AGM for 2025 was concluded.

The meeting then proceeded to discuss continuing and new business and to hear reports from Councillors and the MP.

**Minutes of the October General Meeting**

The General Meeting was held directly after the conclusion of the AGM. Due to the August break, previous matters were checked for updates. 

**1\. Fire Station**  
Discussions are ongoing regarding the loss of a tender at the Govan Fire Station. A letter has been drafted by the previous leadership team of the Community Council, and needs to be sent by email. The new Secretary agreed to take ownership of this task from the former secretary. Mr Easton mentioned the benefit of having access to current email addresses for the Community Council, however access to these had been lost. Therefore, he would look to discuss with André Videla who currently manages the website and domains. 

**2\. Active Travel**   
Following the last consultation, a new proposal was due to be submitted to the community for approval. Councillor Hutchison advised the current timeline could be any time in the autumn.

**3\. Govan Footbridge**  
A quick discussion followed on the lack of publicly available information related to the bridge opening and closing for river traffic. Councillor Hutchison advised it was not possible due to the contracts involved in construction and the initial management. 

**4\. Community Cohesion**  
As a topic that has previously been under consideration, time was spent discussing the current climate nationally, and locally. Concerns were noted about flags present elsewhere in the city on Maryhill Road. Members and Associate Members of the Community Council noted the strides and progress that had been made over the years by the local community. 

Greg Burns from Maslows’ agreed that things had escalated, but they are taking steps against this. Such as connecting with other community groups, working at refuting and putting out the misinformation that is coming from online spaces. They will continue to try and connect with Men’s Shed, Sunny Govan, and look to get real local voices heard over non-community voices. Some pointed out that Facebook groups appear to be the main driver of putting flags out and that those behind them are not from the area, city, or country. 

Councillor Hutchison was asked if Glasgow City Council would remove any flags that were put up in the city. He advised that the Lord Provost’s position is that the council has no plans to use their resources to do this – but agrees that debate is needed.   
**5\. Elder Park Facilities**  
No response as of yet about facilities for the Friends of Elder Park group. Will leave matters for now due to absence of key person Annie Morgan. 

**6\. Bus Franchising**  
Danny O’Neil advised that he is aware that SPT are in favour of following a bus franchising model, but will need government funding to proceed. The Get Glasgow Moving meeting included a presentation on the four options available for the long-planned Clyde Metro project. 

(Note: The plans and all Key Documents for the project are available at: [https://www.spt.co.uk/about-us/what-we-are-doing/clyde-metro/](https://www.spt.co.uk/about-us/what-we-are-doing/clyde-metro/)          )

**7\. Social Housing Provision in Greater Govan area**  
Councillor Hutchison made the CC aware of the potential for a new development that was discussed recently at a meeting for the Central Govan Action Plan (CGAP). Wheatley Homes looking at building on the vacant land at Kintra/Brighton/Iona Streets. While not in the purview of this CC (It is located in Govan East CC), the news was received warmly due to the benefits of bringing life back to these areas. They have become recent hotspots for Fly Tipping due to the large tracts of open land. 

Nothing much to report beyond that, but the CC would look for anything to be tendered on a social rent basis and a wariness has developed around “mid-market rents” due to the recent issues at Water Row. 

**8\. Report from Dr Zubir Ahmed, MP for Glasgow South West**  
The CC welcomed Dr Ahmed who attended our meeting. He apologised for arriving past the start time but had been attending to business elsewhere in the constituency where a concurrent meeting was held. He agreed to give a brief report. 

The recent news of the contract for the Type 26 Frigates awarded to BAE Systems securing future work for yards at Govan. There is also the potential for a new Welding Centre, and Dr Ahmed is pushing for these opportunities to be provided to local residents and school leavers first and foremost. The target is for Govan school children, people who can walk there to be the future. Presentations have been given in local schools and interest is strong. Ms Skeoch asked if Govan Job Centre and DWP have been involved also. Dr Ahmed said there was an existing dialog between those organisations, BAE Systems and Thales. 

He is also aware of the recent issues at the new Water Row development. Contacts were shared with those on the CC to enable us to work closer going forward. 

Firework Control Zones are in place elsewhere in the city. That was where Dr Ahmed was attending this evening, specifically related to the one in force in Pollokshields. Members of the CC wished that a FCZ could be in force for the Govan area. Dr Ahmed suggested we speak to those in Pollokshields CC who helped push this forward. Councillor Hutchison advised that Govan was unable to get one due to absence of police reports and supporting evidence justifying its implementation. He advised all incidents to be reported by dialling 101 and filing a report. With enough reports, it is something that could be reconsidered for 2026\. 

**9\. Shopping Trolleys**  
Our local MP Dr Zubir Ahmed visited Asda Govan with members of the CC and spoke to the management team there. They have re-installed a bollard blocking access of taking trolleys out of the car park onto the southern section of Craigton Road. It was noticed that there had been a reduction in Asda trolleys being abandoned in the area – but naturally issues are still arising with other supermarkets. 

However, a successful campaign thus far and Dr Ahmed was thanked for his work on the matter. 

**10\. The future of the Lyceum**   
Esme Clark advised that there has been a registered interest on the Lyceum and a local trust now has a First Option on any future sales. This is to prevent the cycle of the current owner passing the building between different companies. A brief history of the Lyceum and the position of the CC was explained to those attending for the first time. 

Dr Ahmed advises he has been inside the Lyceum building and notes that the building is finally watertight and protected from the elements. His position on the matter is clear: the owner should use the building or sell it, and they need to make a decision. 

**11\. Lack of bank facilities**  
Concerns were raised from the Chair and others regarding the lack of a bank and now, a functioning and accessible ATM. The ATM inside the M Govan Cross Centre is naturally only available during the business hours of the centre, and was reported to have been inoperable for over a week. The machine itself is at least 15+ years old and the other machine in the area besides Harmony Row Pharmacy was removed over a year ago. 

Dr Ahmed is aware of these issues, and the current roadblock on the matter is the provision provided by the ATM inside M Govan Cross (however inadequate), prevents the pressure being applied to install others in the area. However, he will continue to push for another machine being added. Especially one that offers the ability to perform more banking tasks such as depositing. 

**12\. Waste and Cleansing**  
The new shared recycling and waste bins for residents are performing well and survived Storm Amy with no issues. Additional public bins for the area would be welcome. A query around recycling for glass was proposed, Councillor Hutchison advised any further glass recycling provisions are on hold until the current rollout is completed. 

Additional requests around street clean-up of leaves was requested, particularly around Burleigh Street. Councillor Hutchison advised that the first wave of autumn clean-up was scheduled, however Storm Amy happened and ruined those plans. Resources have been diverted to cleaning up detritus from the storm and it is something that will be actioned. 

The CC reminds residents to use the MyGlasgow system on smartphones and online to report issues and bring them to the attention of GCC. 

The next Community Council Meeting was set for Monday 3rd of November 2025\.   
 
