---
layout: post
title:  "General Meeting 7th April 2025"
author: john
date: 2025-04-25
---

**GOVAN COMMUNITY COUNCIL**

**MINUTES OF**

**GENERAL MEETING MONDAY 7 APRIL 2025**

Held in the Pearce Institute at 7 p.m.

**Present**: Esme Clark, Danny O'Neill, John Foster, Robert Preston,
Gina Preston, Annie Morgan, Marie Davidson, Ruby Kelly (Maslows), Willie
Jones, Claire Dickson (Maslows), Fraser Grant-Rae (representing Dr Ahmed
MP), Kathy Carabine, Justina Kardasz, Katherine McNab, Councillor Alam

A**pologies**: Reinhild Gorniack, Betty Ross, Gordon Mackay, Andrew
Videla, Councillor R. Bell, Cllr. S Dornan, Cllr D. Hutchison, Humza
Yousaf MSP, Dr Ahmed MP

Minute taker: John Foster

1. MINUTES OF THE MARCH MEETING\
   These were moved as correct by Willie Jones and Esme Clark

2. MATTERS ARISING OTHERWISE NOT ON THE AGENDA There were none.

3. HOUSING AND ENVIRONMENT

> a\) **Asda** Our Secretary and Willie Jones had met the Asda manager,
> as had Fraser Grant-Rae representing Dr Ahmed MP. It had been agreed
> that there be closer liaison with the store manager and that he would
> back requests to the contractor employed to collect trolleys. He had
> supplied a telephone number for direct contact. It had also be agreed
> that a bollard be put in place to stop the removal of trollies (but
> not so far done).
>
> b\) **Walk around Govan with Jim Ellis** to identify faults, hazards
> and required repairs, esp. to pavements and roads. Govan Housing
> Association had responded to our letter sent since the last meeting:
> the two other housing associations had not. It was AGREED that we get
> a date from Jim Ellis for early June and request that HAs each send a
> rep.
>
> c\) **Liaison between local housing associations** on housing issues
> such as cooperation in finding appropriate housing in terms of
> household size and disabilities, esp. as tenants get older, and that
> this might be done initially through a common application form as well
> as a joint process for response to subsequent household changes
>
> **d) Shortage of social housing**
>
> The need was acute in Govan and its lack represented a particular
> problem in terms of community cohesion and sustaining
> intergenerational support. Recent construction largely focused on mid
> market rent properties and although contractors originally might
> include low rent provision at the planning stage in terms of City
> Council approval the amount was usually drastically reduced or
> eliminated subsequently. The meeting identified two legal problems
> here. The first was the ban, subsequent to the referendum thirty years
> ago, on direct council house building. The second was the weakness of
> City Council planning powers over private contractors employed by
> Housing Associations. Cllr Alam agreed to investigate the legal basis
> of this and how far it lay within the powers of the City Council to
> enforce conditions and how far it required Scottish level legislation.
> It would also be useful to raise and explore how far the legal ban on
> council house building itself could also be reversed.
>
> **e) Rent levels being charged for 'med-market' rent properties**
>
> Fraser reported on the increases of up to 25 percent for houses in the
> new Water Row development within days of completion and entry.
> Occupiers were currently contesting these increases. Fraser said he
> would put those organising the opposition in touch with the Community
> Council with a view to the attendance by representatives at the May
> meeting. There were additionally significant problems in terms of the
> finish and design of the houses themselves.

4\. ACTIVE TRAVEL

> Our Chair had submitted a response to the consultation document -
> within its very restricted time-limit. His response had stressed a)
> the very brief time period was quite insufficient for community
> councils meeting monthly to consult their communities and agree
> responses that comprehensively reflected their views b) the lack of
> understanding shown to the communities wider needs -- including those
> of shops, small business and Govan Workspace, of those with
> disabilities and mobility provision, of pedestrians and also of those
> coming into Govan from elsewhere to view its historic exhibits, with,
> currently virtually no remaining provision for parking. As such, while
> having the potential to make useful provision for cyclists, it did so
> currently to the significant detriment of Govan's regeneration as a
> community. Our Chair's response focused particularly on the one way
> system for Burleigh Street and Harmony Row (causing major problems for
> deliveries to Govan Workspace), the plan's failure to do anything
> about the highly-dangerous crossing at the Govan Road-Golspie Street
> junction (which had already seen several accidents) and the planned
> sterilisation of Govan Road running alongside the shipyard towards
> Linthouse.

5\. POLICE ACTIONS AT GOVAN SUBWAY LAST SUMMER

> Annie Morgan reported that the cases were currently coming to court
> and that she was giving support to a number of those involved. She
> would report further.

6\. NAMING OF THE BRIDGE

> Our Chair had lodged our petition for its to be named after Mary
> Barbour and it had been accepted to go before Committee. No date had
> been set. Professor Elaine McFarland, an authority on the period, had
> agreed to go as a supporting witness.

7\. REMOVAL OF GRANT FROM URBAN ROOTS & MOOGETY COMMUNITY FACILITIES

> Annie Morgan had raised the removal of grant aid by the Glasgow City
> Health and Social Care Partnership which now endangered the future of
> these facilities -- despite some assistance coming from Elderpark HA
> and through the Elder Library. It seemed likely the facilities for
> employment (Coordinator and gardener) and the provision of food for
> the Lunch Clubs, Craft Cafe and the kitchen class would go. While the
> renovated Library did supply some replacement facilities, the rent for
> their use was too high. It was agreed to give support to
> representation against these cuts, in the first instance through the
> City Council, and to make the argument that the social support
> provided to the elderly and the socially isolated, painstakingly built
> up over a long period, would, once removed, be very difficult to
> replace and that, in terms of physical health and well-being, would
> result in much more costly interventions by professional staff. In
> this connection we should also enquire also about the timetable for
> the Sunday opening of the Library.

8\. PETITION ON THE RIGHTS OF PRE-1989 SCOTTISH SPECIAL TENANTS

> This petition from Govan Community Council, lodged in 2019, had been
> backed by the Petitions Committee and the Local Government Committees
> of the Scottish Parliament but had been effectively lost within the
> ministerial structures of the Scottish government for some years. It
> had now been referred to the drafters of the Housing Bill currently
> before the Scottish Parliament with the backing of the Local
> Government Committee for an appropriate clause requiring rent
> determination to be on the basis of comparability with rents in the
> immediate locality and not be comparison with those in the most
> expensive areas of the City.. The Minute Secretary said he would seek
> to contact the relevant MSPs.

9\. ISSUE OF WELFARE CUTS AND ESPECIALLY DISABILITY PAYMENTS

> The number of those in Govan dependent on various categories of
> disability payment made it a particularly important issue. It was
> agreed that Ruby Kelly for Maslows should write an article for the
> forthcoming Govan Letter and that support be given to broader
> campaigns to reverse these cuts. It was noted, and stressed, that
> these cuts accompanied and facilitated a major increase in military
> spending agreed by P:arliament in the Spring Budget Statement. It was
> therefore moved, and AGREED, that the Council should give support to
> the demonstration in Glasgo on Saturday 10 May at the Buchanan Street
> steps at 12 noon under the title Welfare not Warfare.

10\. THE SPRING ISSUE OF THE GOVAN LETTER

> The Chair indicated that the timetable should enable us to hold a
> public meeting in June, with Royal Mail distribution towards the end
> of Mayn and hence printing and the finalisation of print ready copy to
> be completed by the beginning of May. Provision of copy had begun with
> out Secretary completing a review of the Spring Music Festival and an
> interview with Gordon Mackay already conducted on the founding of the
> Community Council in 1975. An interview with Action for Pensioners was
> scheduled for the following day. Features should cover the housing
> crisis and the meeting with Housing Associations, Active Travel, the
> cuts in disability payments and also the expansion secured in the
> staffing of the Cleansing department.

11\. OFFICERS' REPORTS

Chair All topics already covered.

> Secretary Esme reported on the new developments at the former Dry Dock
> in East Govan and its benefits for the wider Govan community --
> bringing in 500 more people into the area, providing a stronger base
> for the redevelopment of community facilities, shopping and public
> services. There would also be more amenity provision within the site
> itself in terms of water sports and amusements. This made it important
> that our Community Council informed itself of the opportunities and
> ensured that they were generally available. Annie Morgan added a note
> of caution in terms of our previous discussions on the need for social
> housing and the problems resulting from private developers charging
> extortionate rents.

Treasurer Our Secretary reported that our Treasurer was ill and would
not be able to attend for the next couple of months. Best wishes were
sent for a speedy recovery. Our current balance was Â£4,015.

12\. COUNCILLORS' REPORTS

Councillor Alam reported.

a)  Tourist Tax

> He noted that this would cover the Govan area given its historic
> attractions such as the Govan Stones and the shipyards. The total
> generated was likely to be around Â£12m -- most would go the developing
> tourist facilities but a significant could remain for local
> communities and thought should be given to the best uses to which it
> could be put.

b)  Issues of community cohesion and racism

> Recent Reform performances in Glasgow by-elections should raise the
> issue of community cohesion to the front of our agenda

**13. DATE OF NEXT MEETING MONDAY 12 MAY PEARCE INSTITUTE at 7 pm**
