---
layout: post
title:  "General Meeting 3rd February 2025"
author: john
date: 2025-02-03
---
**GOVAN COMMUNITY COUNCIL**

**GENERAL MEETING MONDAY 3 FEBRUARY 2025**

Held in the Pearce Institute at 7 p.m.

**Present**: Esme Clark, Danny O'Neill, Reinhild Gorniak, John Foster,
Robert Preston, Gordon Mackay, Andre Videla, Marie Davidson, Ruby Kelly,
Willie Jones, Claire Dickson, Cllr Richard Bell, Cllr Hutchison. Cllr
Gill Pidgeon (representing Dr Ahmed MP)

A**pologies**: Gina Preston, Annie Morgan, Betty Ross, Humza Yousaf MSP,
Cllr Alam, Cllr Dornan, Dr Ahmed MP

Minute taker: John Foster

**Our Vice Chair Hannah Salome has sent word that she will attend one
last meeting before leaving for her new job in north-east Scotland.**

1.  MINUTES OF THE JANUARY MEETING\
    These were moved as correct by Robert Preston and Esme Clark

2.  MATTERS ARISING AND CONTINUING ISSUES

<!-- -->

a)  **Cleansing, environment, housing and roads**

> Invitations had been issued by our Secretary to Govan's three housing
> associations and to Mr Jim Ellis for the City Council to attend our
> next monthly meeting on 3 March where we will devote the first half to
> discussing the issues identified at the January meeting. The focus
> should be on the environment, cleansing and infrastructure as well
> homelessness and the optimum usage of existing accommodation. The
> Chief Executive of Govan HA had responded positively. Responses were
> still awaited from the two other HAs and Jim Ellis. Secretary and
> Chair to follow up with Wheatley Housing, Elderpark and Jim Ellis.

b)  **Active Travel consultation on road modification to improve cycling
    safety**

> Councillor Hutchison noted that no date had so far been set --
> promised for March - for a report back on the consultation.

c)  **Lyceum**

> The Chair had not yet had the opportunity to discuss with the two
> elected members their apparent support for an alternative proposal to
> that endorsed by the Community Council and the community more widely.
> He would do so and report to the March meeting.

d)  **Police actions on 3 July at Govan underground**

> Chair noted that no further response on this issue from the Police
> likely while legal action pending.

e)  **Naming of the new bridge after Mary Barbour**

> No response had yet been received from the City Council regarding our
> Petition for a Committee hearing. Emeritus Professor of History at
> Glasgow Caledonian University, Dr Elaine McFarland, had agreed to
> attend as a witness to attest the historical importance of Mary
> Barbour. It was hoped to secure a second witness, on the importance of
> women in political campaigning, from the WASPI women

f)  **Banking Services in Govan**

> Gordon noted that the call for a 'hub' in Govan had become all the
> stronger as a result of further closures across Glasgow. However, he
> also noted the trend to 'de-cash' transactions in a number of major
> shops across Glasgow and the problems this raised for those without
> online banking facilities.

g)  Op**ening hours of Elder Park Library: legal obligation to open on
    Sundays under terms of Gift from Lady Elder**

> Our Chair had yet to brief Mike Dailly of Govan Law Centre.

h)  **Restoration work in Elder Park**

> Willie Joines reported on continuing progress both from volunteers and
> from the community payback team -- with undergrowth removed and
> rhododendrons trimmed. Govan Youth Information Project had agreed to
> keep watch for graffiti artists at the Portico. Work to clean and
> reinstate the Trail signs had, however, yet to start.

**g) Elderpark Festival**

There was a planning meeting on the coming Friday (9 February)

3.  NEW ISSUES

> **Glasgow constituency boundaries**
>
> These had been reconfigured once more. Positively all of Govan, as
> historically constituted, was in one constituency. However, the
> constituency itself sprawled across both sides of the river from the
> QE Hospital to Parkhead and also included, Kelvin, Gorbals and
> Pollokshields. It was suggested and AGREED that we write to the
> Boundaries commission asking that Govan, as one of two formal Burghs
> incorporated into the city, be, at minimum, be named 'Central and
> Govan'.
>
> **Govan Action for Pensioners**
>
> Gordon Mackay reported on the serious illness of Richard Wilkins, the
> volunteer who had sustained GAP's work -- though now recovering in
> Ward 66 at the QEU Hospital. His work had been taken over by other
> supporters including two from the new housing at Govan Cross.
>
> **English as a foreign language for local school children**
>
> Ruby raised the severe problems arising in local primary and secondary
> schools as a result of the lack of adequate numbers of ESOL teachers
> -- particularly in GHS. The number of refugee children had increased
> very significantly: the number of teachers had not. The issue was
> acknowledged by the two City Councillors present.

4.  OFFICERS' REPORTS

> **Chair**
>
> **Franchising of bus services**
>
> The AGM of Get Glasgow Moving was on 19 February at 7 p.m. There was a
> discussion of the lack of progress arising from the legislation passed
> in 2019 -- partly as a result of the lack of supportive secondary
> legislation and partly as a result of the lack of funding to buy out
> the bus companies. Cllr Bell noted the Scottish government's
> initiative to cap fares at £2 in eight local authorities -- but
> doubted that this would extend to Glasgow given the cost. There was
> general agreement that this should be an issue to raise in the coming
> election period.
>
> S**ecretary**
>
> **Local environmental issues**
>
> Esme reported that she had written to the manager of ASDA requesting
> that there was a resumption of the previous practice whereby a van
> would collect abandoned shopping trolleys once a week. She also raised
> the continuing issue of fireworks being readily available for purchase
> locally at all times, the release of fireworks randomly day and night
> and the lack of response by police when phoned.
>
> There had still been no response (or action) to our letters to Roads
> on dangerous pavements on the east side of Pearce Street and also on
> the south side of Govan Road between Brechins Bar and Harmony Row.
> Councillor Hutchison agreed to follow up these issues. However, Esme
> praised the relatively swift response of the Council to storm damage.
>
> **Treasurer**
>
> We currently had £4,528.60p in our account. But the full payment for
> the Govan Letter and its distribution, as well as rent for the PI,
> would reduce the balance to around £4,000. Reinhild was thanked for
> her detailed work as our Treasurer.

5.  COMMUNITY COUNCIL ORGANISATION

<!-- -->

a)  **Communications**

> **Website**
>
> Andre was congratulated on on-going work and his appeal for assistance
> noted. Further copies of back issues of minutes and the Govan Letter
> had been added.

**Facebook site**

> Willie Jones reported that the site had had around 100 visitors over
> the past month and was up to date with minutes.

b)  **Govan Letter**

> We should begin preparations for the Spring issue over the next month
> with a view to distribution in April.

6.  COUNCILLOR'S REPORT

> **Councillor Richard Bell** reported principally on budget issues. The
> final figures from the Scottish budget, contingent on the resolving
> compensation for the higher costs of PAYE payments for the better paid
> and bigger public sector employment in Scotland, were expected over
> the next week. If only 50 percent was covered, the Council would face
> a £30m hole. He would seek to ensure that Cleansing and Parks were, on
> this occasion, protected. Additional funding had already been secured
> to halt any reduction in teacher numbers. Cllr Bell also noted that
> new powers were being implemented to charge tourists travelling to
> Glasgow -- with a small supplement to their hotel bill. This would
> start next year. Further legislation was being considered that might
> enable the charging of those from wealthy suburbs for the use of
> Glasgow's facilities.
>
> **Cllr Hutchison reported**

a)  **AGM for Govan Lyceum**

> This would take place on Tuesday 11 February at the PI 7 pm

b)  **Bin Hubs** These had now been purchased for SW Glasgow and would
    be installed, after public discussion and consultation, from April
    onwards

c)  **Double Parkin**g and Pavement Parking Regulations were now in
    place covering most roads in Govan including Govan Road.

d)  **10 percent rent increase in Water Row**

> These mid-market tenancies were facing demands for a 10 percent rise
> and he would be assisting an appeal.

7.  DATE OF NEXT MEETING

> This would be the **[first]{.underline} Monday: 3 March at 7 p.m.** in
> the Pearce Institute.
