---
layout: post
title:  "General Meeting 1st September 2025"
author: john
date: 2025-09-01
---

**GOVAN COMMUNITY COUNCIL**

**MINUTES OF GENERAL MEETING**

**MONDAY 7 JULY 2025** *(Note: This is an error in the original document, it should be September 2025)*

Held in the Pearce Institute at 7 p.m.

**Present**: Esme Clark, Danny O'Neill, John Foster, Robert Preston, Georgina Preston, Annie Morgan, Andre Videla, Claire Dickson, Ruby Kelly, Debbie Cadden, Madeline Sheoch, Greg Easton, Chloe Bell, Katherine McNab, Helen Edgar, Cllr Alam, Cllr. Dornan, Cllr Hutchison, Cllr Bell.

**Apologies**: Reinhild Gorniack, Willie Jones, Marie Davidson, Betty Ross, Gordon Mackay, Humza Yousaf MSP, Dr Ahmed MP

Minute taker: John Foster

1.  MINUTES OF THE JULY MEETING
    These were moved as correct by Esme Clark and Robert Preston subject to the correction of the name Chrissie Eldridge to Lizzie in 2g.

2. MATTERS ARISING

> a\) **Active Travel consultation** Our Secretary reported that as a result of the new consultation more thought would now be given to the needs of pedestrians – as for example the lack of a pedestrian crossing to the Pearce Institute (Cllr Hutchison confirmed that this would be actioned) and the improvement of pavements (Cllr Hutchison noted that cash limits would prevent a comprehensive upgrading but that all pavements running alongside cycle lanes would be improved). In this connection Cllr Bell also noted that the traffic lights at Craigton Road/Edmiston Drive were now operating correctly. Our Secretary also reported the comments of her relatives from London about the lack of any comprehensive travel planning in the Glasgow area – interlinking buses, underground and overground trains in terms of ticketing and a universal travel card system as in Greater London. There was agreement among those present that this had to be the objective in Glasgow region in the context of restoring the public ownership/control of passenger transport. In this connection it was also noted by Cllr Bell that there were still active discussions, under David Begg's Commission, of plans for a metro-line to Glasgow airport that would serve a number of communities along the route.
>
> b\) **Police Actions at Govan subway station in summer 2024 and further liaison** Our chair reported that some the trials of the protesters against arms production for Israel by Thales, in the context of arrests and police actions at Govan Cross, had taken place, and that we should now discuss issues arising and other matters with the Community Inspector for Govan. Officers should consider which meeting of the Community Council (the October AGM or November) was most appropriate.
>
> c\) **The New Bridge**
>
>> i) **Naming** Cllr Hutchison reported that our petition for it to be named the Mary Barbour Bridge had not yet be scheduled but he was pressing for it to be taken before Christmas. He hoped other councillors would support.
>>
>> ii) **Notice of opening/closing** Andre Videla raised the issue of prior notice of the closing of the Bridge (for river traffic) and the example of the Renfrew ferry that gave advance notice along roads for some distance. He proposed approaching the owners to introduce a computerised system – which would involve, Cllr Bell noted, both the operating company and the actual owners of the bridge, the City Region.
>
> d\) **Community Cohesion** Contact should be made with Ibrox, East Govan, Drumoyne and Kinning Park CCs. Officers to assess whether this was best done after the AGMs were concluded or at that meeting. Cllr Alam noted that he had made inquiries and that so far nothing untoward had occurred. Annie Morgan noted the good feeling and multicultural spirit of the Elder Park Festival.
>
> e\) **Elder Park**
>
>> i) **Festival** Annie reported that door numbers had reached 4,000 – though this might include some returners. The day had been a great success with a good range of stalls and active appreciation of the Park and its potential and very good support from relevant council departments. Key attractions had been the restored Rose Garden.
>>
>> ii) **Upkeep and Facilities** In general it was felt that there had been a significant improvement. Major problems, however, remained with the pond. This had been raised by Willie Jones in an email and at the meeting by Annie and attenders from the Elderpark area. Its condition rendered it a major health and safety threat – with a young child recently falling in and almost trapped by the algae and weeds. The council was considering various plans for its development as an amenity. The meetings believed that more immediate action was required to clean it. There also remained an issue with the storage of tools used by the Friends of Elder Park. There was discussion of how this might be remedied by the usage of the Park Villa premises. Councillors agreed to re-investigate if there was any leeway within its current conditions of let from the City Council for a limited usage by the Friends and Boat Club members. Willie Jones had sent a note with good news that the City Council was considering some remedial work on the Portico.
>
> f\) **Bus franchising** Cllr Dornan indicated that the PTE would be examining the issue of franchising bus services at its September meeting. He hoped its general agreement would be reached before a further meeting in October by the Bus committee examining the financial implications. These remained the major stumbling block. In Greater Manchester franchising was made possible by funds available through the Mayor’s office. No such funds existed, it seemed, in Scotland – unless specifically released by the Scottish government. For the Community Council our Chair stressed the importance of political mobilisation on the issue and the role of Get Glasgow Moving which was meeting the following day. Theoretical legislative approval had been given to franchising by legislation in 2019 – but no secondary legislation had been forthcoming for five years and no cash at all.
>
> g\) **Fire Station: proposals to cut the number of tenders from two to one** Our Secretary had attended a consultation meeting organised by the Fire and Rescue Service in August. It appeared clear that there was a determination to push through the reduction in fire tenders from two to one. It was AGREED to liaise with the local FBU to send letters to the First Minister and to the political parties represented in the Scottish Parliament and copied to our MSP and MP. While all cuts in the service should be opposed, there were special reasons in Govan: Scotland’s major hospital with flammable cladding not due for removal before 2028; two major workplaces using processes known to be liable to cause industrial fires; concentrations of tenements (some in very bad repair) and Scotland’s largest football stadium – and, in terms of the service’s rescue function, the Clyde Tunnel, the subway and its workshops and a very major motorway system. The claim that tenders could be sent from elsewhere ignored issues of traffic jams at rush hours and on match days.
>
> h\) **Social Housing** The Community Council would need to come back to the crisis of social housing provision.
>
> j\) **Asda Trolleys**
>
>> l) **Shopping Trolleys** Willie Jones reports his work with Asda seems have paid off with news that building work will commence shortly to stop trolleys being taken further than the carpark.

3\. OFFICER'S REPORTS

> **Our Chair** Danny indicated that he would have to stand down from his position as a result of moving beyond the formal boundaries of the Council. He would deliver his final report at the AGM. He hoped to continue work for the Council as an Associate Member if agreed at the AGM. He reported that the new arrangements for the distribution of the Govan Letter appeared to have had better results that Royal Mail, which was confirmed by the meeting, and it was recommended that we continue with the new provider.
>
> **Our Secretary** Esme also indicated a wish to stand down but was willing to continue for a limited period if no candidate came forward. Esme raised some continuing issues.
>
>> a) **The failure of any Farmers’ Market to materialise.** Cllr Bell reported that discussions were continuing with a possible supplier and that, additionally, he had been having discussions with the Glasgow Centre for Population Health, that was considering Govan as a trial area for a food market within its ongoing examination of how far they could improve health in areas such as Govan. He also mentioned that a new café would be opened at the base of the Water Row flats. Annie raised possible initiatives using local producers such as Dig In and that the disused Bank of Scotland building would make an excellent venue. Cllr Bell noted that Chris Stephens was continuing to lobby for its use as a banking hub.
>>
>> b) **New Norwegian orders for BAE Govan** Esme reported that these six orders would sustain employment into the 2030s.
>
> **Our Treasurer** Rheinild was having to stand down as a result of an illness resulting in loss of sight. The meeting sent its thanks for her past work and a hope that the illness might be reversed or overcome.

4\. ARRRANGEMENTS FOR OUR AGM ON MONDAY 6 OCTOBER

> a) **Election of a new Community Council** This AGM marked the beginning of a new five year term for the Council. To remain viable at least eight of the 14 places had to be filled. Currently six nominations appear to have been filed or in process of submission. It was therefore urgent that we secure at least two more. Responsibilities were agreed to follow up those who had previously indicated. If any election was necessary, this would take place prior to the formal meeting.
>
> b) **Nomination of Associate Members** This would take place subsequent to the election
>
> c) **Election for officer's positions** This would immediately follow the establishment of a quorate Council on 6 October.

5\. COUNCILLORS' REPORTS

> **Councillor Alam** He reported he had been invited by the owner of the Lyceum for a discussion. He would attend but with the knowledge of the position already taken by the Community Council and the opinion of the City Council in terms of the current state of the building. He would continue to advise the council in terms of any issues in the area of community cohesion.
>
> **Councillor Bell** The City’s hiring of 300 new employees continued. A process of re-interview had become necessary for parking attendants but most other areas were now being filled. This was particularly welcome in, for instance, cleansing where many members of the workforce had reached the age where they could no longer navigate close stairs with heavy loads. He hope the result would be a major pick-up services. The roll-out of the new ‘bin hubs. would take place in Govan over the coming month.
>
> **Councillor Hutchison**
>
>> a) **Subway modernisation** The next phase was going ahead with the installation of ‘platform’ doors that would make possible driverless trains within the next year. Our Chair raised the issue of the subway ‘rattle’ and the difficulty of reading in any coach but the first.
>>
>> b) **Consideration of a congestion charge** Steps were being taken to get authority to levy a congestion on all cars coming into the area from beyond its boundaries – and secure extra funds for public transport improvement.
