---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: "/about/"
---

## GOVAN COMMUNITY COUNCIL

Govan Community Council was established in 1976 under the new
legislation on local government passed in 1973. This described community
councils as the third tier of government with responsibility ensuring
that the voice of the local communities was heard. Community Councils
have legal rights to oppose (or support) planning applications and
licensing applications and to be consulted on all matters affecting
their community. They are required to be non-sectarian and non-party
political (but not non-political).

Govan Community Council currently meets monthly on the first Monday
(unless a public holiday). It currently meets in the Board Room of
Elderpark Workspace at 7 pm. Meetings are open to the public and the
next meeting will be on Monday 2 September.

The Chair is Danny O'Neill 07753 126593; the Secretary Esme Clark 0141
425 1318.

## ELECTION OF NEW MEMBERS AUTUMN 2024

Forms are currently available for the election of four new members. They
must be returned to the City Council by Monday 9 September. Phone either
the Chair or Secretary to receive a copy. If an election is necessary.it
will be held on Monday 7 October. Those applying must be 16 or over and
live west of Broomloan Road and the east side of Drive Road and between
the river and the motorway. If you are interested the Community Council
officers would strongly welcome your application.

## CURRENT CAMPAIGNS BEING SUPPORTED BY THE COMMUN ITY COUNCIL

Opposition to the downgrading of Govan fire station and the removal of
one of its two tenders.

Opposition to the loss of banking cash dispensers (and closure of banks)
in the Govan area.

Support for the City Council's initiative to redevelop the Lyceum as a
community centre -- and its appeal for signatures on the petition.

Support for demands for the public ownership of bus services in Glasgow.

Opposition to the cut in teacher numbers in Glasgow schools.

Support for the demand that asylum seekers be given the right to work.
